The markets and investors have been
conditioned to look through volatility.
>> Markets can remain more buoyant
>> on a fundamental basis. We are still in
a very good place.
>> It's really not about hype anymore.
>> It's impossible to kind of figure out
like pinpoint where it's going to go.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, talks [music] breaking
down. The White House planning to block
the straight former following the
collapse of peace talks over the
weekend. The tension sending crude oil
breaking back into triple [music]
digits. It's a weak start to a new
trading week.
>> Welcome back. Although I should have
said welcome [music] back on Sunday
night because we all were on our
terminals on Sunday night trying to
understand what the ramifications in
markets would be from the biggest
escalation since the ceasefire began.
And a real question here about the
market reaction. It actually isn't as
great as I would expect because [music]
right now we still have the potential to
escalate into a full hot war that brings
in the entire region. The market's
looking past that, saying earnings
begin. We're not necessarily going to
see that [music] because that just
doesn't seem to be in anybody's
interest.
>> Equity futures right now, the S&P 500
negative just 0.6%. [music]
A fragile truth still holds. That's the
good news. Are we taking one step back
to take two [music] steps forward? That
might be the view of the equity market
so far this morning. The problem is how
does a fragile truce hold when you have
the president at 10:00 a.m. announcing
[music] this blockade? The Iranians will
not only not see this as the ceasefire
holding, they will see this as [music]
an escalation. Basically, the Trump
administration is saying if we can't use
the straight of Hermoose or our allies
in Europe and Japan and Asia can't use
the straight of her moose, neither can
you.
>> Brent crude triple [music] digits 102.
What is anchoring the outlook? Earnings
Goldman Sachs later this morning kicking
things off 7:30 Eastern time. That is
what we're pinning the hope on that the
outlook for earnings is still solid in
America at the banks. [music] First the
report.
>> Yeah. And this really is the reason why
Morgan Stanley's Mike Wilson is still
bullish and why Max Ker of HSBC came out
this morning saying he is still max
bullish, max overweight given the fact
that earnings are likely to come in
strong. Key question for me is how
strong do the outlook have to be given
[music] the black box that people have
of the outlook? How are they preparing
for a world in which [music] suddenly
tree uh free shipping is not going to be
the reality anymore? And that ultimately
is the question that a lot of CEOs are
going to have to answer.
>> Max is joining us later this week. One
line in his research that [music] he
published just moments ago. Less bad is
good enough. Less bad is good enough.
After the weekend, could you say [music]
things are getting less bad?
>> I'm not sure. I don't think so. I think
that right now potentially we're just at
a standstill. [music] Nothing has moved
forward or backwards. The talks are
deadlocked. I don't see Iran or the
United States moving on their very
hardened red lines and right now you
have a blockade. So I actually view this
[music] as escalation because Iran says
that they are going to respond to that
blockade.
>> We have got a big week a big hour coming
up. Coming [music] up this hour Peter
chair of Academy Securities has failed
peace talks drive stocks lower. Norman
rule of CSIS on blockading the straight
of former and Andrew Honhorse of city as
inflationary pressures continue to
build. We begin this hour with our top
story. President Trump vowing to
blockade the straight from M for all
vessels that stop in Iran beginning
later this morning. Our team coverage
starts right now with Jabana Basi in
Dubai and Tyler Kendall in Washington.
Tyler, first to you. Just what happens
several hours from now.
>> Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well, at
this point we did get confirmation from
US Central Command that this blockade
starting at 10:00 a.m. Eastern will
extend to all Iranian ports. So
importantly, they say that the US
military will not impede any vessels
going to and from non-Iranian ports. So
technically not a full blockade, but of
course one designed with some really big
implications. President Trump here of
course trying to limit Iran's leverage
and financial lifeline after the talks
this weekend concluded without any
resolution. President Trump also says
effective immediately. The US is going
to try to clear mines in the strait may
actually board and seize any vessels
that have paid tolls to Iran and is
ready to attack in the event that Iran
retaliates. Because as you guys were
just discussing, we did get this
statement overnight from the IRGC saying
that if any military vessels approach
the straight of Hermuz, Iran is going to
take that as a violation of the
ceasefire. All of this happening because
these talks did not yield successful
results. And we should point out that a
US official familiar with the matter
confirms to Bloomberg News that one of
the biggest sticking points this weekend
was that the US delegation felt that
Iran did not fully recognize that the
US's main goal here when it comes to
these talks is to limit Iran's nuclear
ambitions and its program. Now, John,
President Trump did say in an interview
over the weekend he thinks that Iran
will come to the table eventually when
it comes to their nuclear program. Yet,
we are also getting these statements
from Iran saying that they're going to
hold firm.
>> Jam, we've seen the statements from
Iran, the reaction from the US. Where
are Gulf partners? Do they support the
blockade that this president's looking
to push forward through?
>> That's, you know, the millions question
here. Nothing has been explicitly
released, but I did spend a big chunk of
yesterday speaking to many senior
officials from the region. Uh, and they
will tell you that this actually is an
outcome that they would endorse because
we were in a situation the last couple
of weeks where the only oil that was
getting through the straight of Hormas
was Iranian oil. Everything else, you
know, for every other producer in the
region, it was essentially blocked off.
And so now we we find ourselves a at
least you know with the US trying to do
something about the uh the right of
sovereignty that Iran insists that they
have over the straits of foremost. Again
as Tyler was saying there's a lot of
questions about how exactly it's going
to be implemented how Iran are going to
respond if this is going to lead to
another downward spiral. Would it lead
to more military escalation and
potentially an ending of the ceasefire?
But I would say you know and this isn't
getting a lot of attention. One thing,
one part of uh President Trump's true
social post yesterday, he did describe
the meetings as having gone well and
that most of the points had actually
been agreed to. And so some people in
the region are saying, well, maybe this
is the master stroke out of the US. And
this is, you know, I'm not putting words
in in other people's mouths, but I'm
just saying there is a a feeling that
maybe this could work out in the sense
that the US managed to extract one of
Iran's key point of leverage ahead of
the next round of discussions and
therefore you know they could be more
amnable to yielding to some of the other
US demands namely on the nuclear file.
>> Jam Betitor Bank Talendo over in
Washington DC. The talks continue. Is
that enough for this market? this
morning, the front month of the futures
curve, trading higher by about 8% in the
oil market. WTCI 104, Brent crude at 102
and equities, if you just look at
equities this morning, just slightly
softer, not seeing that big wash out you
might expect after the announcements
over the weekend. And
>> part of the reason why is because of the
back end of the uh oil curve is still
contained. You aren't seeing people
really pricing the idea that this is
going to be a material breach that will
not get solved before December.
>> Futures this morning negative by 0.6%.
Here is the view on Wall Street this
morning. It comes from the team at
Academy Securities writing the
following. This is a bold attempt to
strip Iran of both leverage and revenue.
This doesn't resolve the urgent transit
problem. If anything, it complicates it.
Pete joins us now for more. Pete, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> Your reaction to that very subdued
reaction in this equity market.
>> It seems about right. I was guessing
we'd be down 1%, so we're not quite down
that much, but again, I think people
have to see how this plays out. To be
honest, I think at 10 a.m. we will see
what the military actions actually look
like, right? It's a political action.
when president talks about it, it will
become a military action. We'll see what
we're willing to do. And there's been
talk about going into the straight and
clearing lines. That would be awesome,
right? That would set the stage for
something really good. Flip side of that
is we don't know what Iran will do and
we don't know what we'll do if you know
Chinese ships are coming through. So
there's a lot of uncertainties. I think
this could go either way still
>> militarily and you and the team over at
Academy in a position to help answer
this question. How difficult is it to
block the strain of MS?
>> I think that's well within our
capability, right? blockading it and
keeping control, interjecting ships.
That's something we can do. I think we
can stay far enough away that we're not
really in constant range of Iranian
attacks. The flip side of that is can we
go into the straight and clear the
mines? We supposedly sent two ships
through, they did some mine sweeping.
That could be more difficult. So, I
think it's really comes down to the
extent of how far we're willing to go
and if Iran's going to try and disrupt
us or not. I spent the weekend worrying
about China and I wondered how much this
was an effort to bring China into the
play because ultimately this would block
some of their oil from coming to their
shores. How much do you see this as an
escalation in terms of international
relations and trying to draw in other
members more aggressively into this
conflict?
>> Yeah. So, one, I do think we're pushing
on Iran economy. We'll see how long they
can go with us. There is this risk of
escalation though that you draw China in
or you do something to a ship that all
of a sudden in international waters
causes some degree of legal
constrnation. So there is a risk and and
I think that's been the problem this
kind of you know the maximalist leverage
that we're trying to apply and Iran
seems to be applying it's very easy to
slip and make a mistake and go down a
path you don't intend to right so I
think that to me is the risk and anytime
you have navies out there air force out
there is a risk of accident or you know
Iran getting lucky shooting down another
F50 so it's a risk and I think it's it's
nerve-wracking
>> when I hear that I think why isn't the
market down more to John's point earlier
at the same time earnings coming up are
supposed to Tom all given the fact that
the outlooks are probably going to be
muted. That said, the actual results
have been pretty aggressive and and
good. How much are you expecting them to
comment on the tail risks and the
potential scenario analysis of how they
plan to face off with it?
>> So, one, I do think all bets are off. If
we really see the ceasefire broken, I
think market sell off two or 3%. Right.
So far, we have not seen the ceasefire
broken. There's talk block eight. away
from that. Yeah, it's I think people are
talking about the tail risk, the
uncertainty, and I think it's not even
just going to be the US economy. I think
what does global demand look like? Asia
has been hit far worse than us by this.
Europe's getting hit far worse by uh
than this. And finally, you know, does
the American brand sell as well
globally? Are people seeing a
willingness to buy American brands? Has
that changed at all? So, I think it's
really going to be what is the tail
risk? What's the economic uncertainty
look like? Again, just domestically, we
actually, you know, I don't really trust
University of Michigan consumer
confidence very much. Having said an
all-time low is still pretty, you know,
you got to at least pay some attention.
And uncertainty breeds conservatism in
terms of spending and hiring. And that I
think is the risk. So I I I think the
it's I really don't care that much what
this quarter looks like. It's the sort
of message you get out. And if Jamie
Diamond's any hint, right, you are going
to see more and more, you know, concern
about geopolitics, what this means. I
can certainly tell you at Academy
Securities, we've been incredibly busy
as people want to understand how we're
seeing the military play out. And as
much as we talk about Iran, I would
still say at least 50% of our
conversations about China because that
is the real long-term strategic risk.
>> With great respect for Jamie Diamond,
much of the diamond doom has been pretty
off base over the past 5 years,
particularly with regards to JP Morgan
earnings themselves. So, I'd park that
story just for a moment and I' I'd raise
this question. Regret and conditioning.
April 20, April 25. We'd be conditioned
to buy the dip quite aggressively and
we're filled with regret if we didn't
get long quickly enough. Is there a big
difference between this moment and those
moments?
>> One, I think April 2020 to me that just
seems so overdone. The the fear was, you
know, palpable. It was wrong. We kind of
got very bullish there. On liberation
day, we were a bit slow to turn around,
but again, that was one where we pulled
back on all our policies, right? So you
still have to read today, oh, everyone
who said like, you know, tariffs were
going to be awful weren't right. It's
like, well, we pull back so much. This
one's harder, right? It's harder for us
to walk back. I don't even know what
happens if we just say, hey, we're done.
We fixed enough of the regime. We've
moved on. We can leave the area. I don't
know that we rally again like this. I I
feel like there's been more permanent
damage. Again, there is this real risk.
Everyone's been quiet. Everyone seems to
assume no one wants to be, you know, cut
short or not long enough when we get the
real peace deal. And I think that's a
risk right now that we don't get that
that we once again see some degree of
escalation. It's not a huge risk, but I
do think that's real.
>> Does the market at the moment even
believe a blockade's happening at 10
a.m.?
>> You know, I I think we're viewing it as
simple. We'll stop ships coming again.
There's only three or four ships passing
through anyway, supposedly. So, this
doesn't seem like that big of a deal to
me. I I'll get really excited if we are
going through and sweeping minds because
that would seem, hey, this is really
pushing to a much more clear, you know,
signal that Iran has no control over.
>> To that point, Pete, there was also a
New York Times article going into the
weekend suggesting that Iran was in a
position to reopen the straight of
former because they didn't know where
the mines were and didn't have the
capabilities to clear them themselves.
>> Right? So, there's also this risk that
they have about letting ships through to
potentially damage that they don't even
want to happen. They don't want that
then. There's no intention for them to
damage. They just lost track of where
they dropped all these mines.
>> Jama on that line over the weekend that
talks went well. Do you think we're in a
position to sit here on Monday morning
and say we're in a decent position for
further talks here, further negotiations
with the Iranians?
>> Mixed. I I think it really comes down to
the highlyenriched uranium, right? Are
they willing to give that up? I think
militarily it's very difficult for us to
get in. And the mines are an interesting
story. It's, you know, when we talk to
our, you know, generals and admirals in
particular, mines are the one thing that
really scare ships, right? Drones,
missile attacks, they're fine. You know,
even some torpedoes. The mines are
designed, they re, they basically hit
you from up, lift the ship up, crack it,
and you are done. So, it is a bit scary
if there are mines floating around that
no one knows where. Again, the US
military can do this. And I've been, you
know, if we see for once Europe or
someone else come together and help the
US, that would also be pretty positive
for markets, right? We have not seen any
help from anyone really in the Gulf or
the NATO allies.
>> Mron says they're hosting a conference
this week. So we'll see what comes out
of the European conference on the trade
of Hermoose. But Jonathan let into you
by talking about the fact that this is a
bold attempt to your words to cut Iran
off of their revenues. If that's what
this administration cares about, why did
three weeks ago they unsanction Iranian
oil?
>> That's a big question. I'm not 100% sure
and I'm on the slightly skeptical side
that this will work as effectively. You
know, do they have weeks or months of
runway for this? Yeah. And we talk a lot
about this, right? We've clearly been
waring. We've been trying to practice,
you know, what we would do. Iran's been
thinking about this for a long time. So,
you would have to believe Iran has some
contingency plans for being cut off
economically. Do they have side deals
with China to get product in even if
they're not paying? So I I I really am
skeptical that this will bring immediate
um you know in the next week or two
weeks Iran to its knees from an economic
standpoint. So if that's not the case
again this is always still about this
buildup. How long can we endure higher
prices and can Iran do anything to keep
those prices high which probably would
have to include going back and targeting
pipelines and alternative facilities?
That's the risk of escalation.
>> It can get messy quickly. Final question
Pete. We're not going to have much time
for this throughout this morning. Rory,
back to back, quick comment if you can.
What a weekend of golf.
>> It was pretty amazing. It's, you know,
it was awesome how many people were in
the hunt and it felt like at any moment
on Sunday, anyone could have won. I'm
glad Roy did. I really would have liked
to see Cam Young win. We were at a watch
party for him. It would have been
awesome.
>> He's got a great future ahead of him. No
doubt about that. Pete, it's good to see
you, sir. Thank you. Peter there of
Academy Securities. And of course,
congratulations to Rory Maroy and his
team. Up next on the program, a standoff
[music] at the straight. As you know, at
10:00 tomorrow, we have a blockade going
into effect. That'll be 10:00 tomorrow.
Other nations are working so that Iran
will not be able to sell oil and uh that
will be very effective.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Norman R of
CSIS live from New York City [music]
this morning. Good morning.
Later this morning, earnings season
begins for the big names on Wall Street.
Goldman [music] Sachs kicking things off
in about an hour and 10 minutes. Look
out for that. Your scores heading into
it. Equity futures subdued. We're down
by just 0.6% [music] on the S&P 500
following the biggest weekly gain of the
year so far. Lori Cavverina of RBC
Braosmo saying this this morning. It
appears to [music] us that the S&P 500
has established a fragile foggy bottom.
>> Yeah. And still reiterating her target
for the end of the year. We're seeing a
similar kind of I don't want to call it
optimism, but an understanding that
maybe we've priced in the bad news from
Mike Wilson [music] of Morgan Stanley,
from Max Kentner of HSBC. How much is
this where the gains have come from? It
is big [music] tech. It is the big banks
reclaiming leadership after a long uh
cycle of them really falling behind.
>> Just slightly softer on equities even
with this move in crude. [music] And
check it out. Brent and WTI back into
triple digits higher by anywhere between
seven and 8% so far this morning. And a
surveillance this morning. It's a
standoff [music] at the straight.
>> Remember their promise was that they
were going to open the harmonious
straight. They didn't do it. They lied.
As you know, at 10:00 tomorrow, we have
a blockade going into effect. That'll be
10:00 tomorrow. Other nations are
working so that Iran will not be able to
sell oil. And uh that would be very
effective.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Iran
threatening to retaliate if the US
blocks the straight of the ships that
stop at its ports, warning, quote, "No
port in the Persian Gulf and the Sea of
Aman will be safe." Norman Rule of CSIS
writing, "It's the sharpest escalation
since the ceasefire. This may not mark
the formal end of the ceasefire, but it
could represent the beginning of its
unraveling." Norman joins us now for
more. Norman, welcome back to the
program, sir. Norm, in your mind, what
happens several hours from now at 10
a.m. Eastern time?
>> At 10:00 a.m., in essence, you will have
the United States stop all shipping into
Iranian ports. And for the Iranians,
they will need to test US fortitude.
They will likely try to do several
things. They may try to run several
tankers through the Iranian side of the
straight of Hormuz into Iranian waters
to see what we what will we do if the
tankers are instruct tanker captures are
instructed to continue no matter what
the US says. Uh the Iranians will just
see what happens. Uh at the same time,
the Iranians will look to see what ships
go in uh uh outside under the US control
and then perhaps threaten to target
those ships or the ports that where
these ships attempt to dock. And last,
of course, if the Iranian position is
that their economy will suffer because
of an inability to produce uh and export
oil, they could in an extremist position
attack uh Gulf oil producers. Norm, is
the blockade the appetizer potentially
for full US naval escorts through the
strait?
>> It is, but it may not but it just may be
a a broader step for US policy to test
Iran short of hostilities. We saw the
two destroyers go through over the
weekend and that was interesting se for
several reasons. First, they faced no
mines. Secondly, they faced no Iranian
missiles, speedboats, or any other
Iranian hostile activity, which could
have happened. Uh, next, you had the US
demonstrate freedom of navigation, which
is a long-standing US practice in the
straight of Hormuz and the Persian Gulf.
Uh, so you've got a precedent beginning
where the US is beginning to test a
process that could lead to uh convoy
operations, but it could be that convoy
operations are are not necessary. the
straight just naturally opens on its own
at some point. But again, we're we're in
early days and hostilities could well
break out again.
>> Well, in these early days, will Gulf
partners help the United States in this
blockade?
>> I don't see that as being necessary. And
the best way they could help out would
be to produce uh uh oil and energy
through other routes that don't rely
upon these straightform. And I think
you're seeing Saudi Arabia and the
Emirates do this. Also, you're seeing
rhetoric by the Gulf of leadership such
as Dr. Sultano Jabber and others uh
where they state that no uh Iranian
control of the straight of Hormuz can be
tolerated. And I think you're going to
continue to see that quite uh clearly.
>> Norm, what left is there to negotiate if
Iran doesn't want to give up control of
the straight of Hormuz and they are not
willing to give up the nuclear
ambitions?
uh constraints upon their uh missile
program to ensure that they don't
develop an intercontinental ballistic
missile and uh continued enhancements on
their uh medium-range ballistic missile
that make it impossible or difficult for
uh regional countries to uh stop them
but also the activities of the goods
force. I mean, recall that the goods
force was proliferating missiles to the
Houthis, which did uh shut down the Red
Sea for a period of time, missiles and
drones, and there's no question that the
goods force will continue to provide
technology to the Houthis and other
proxies in the region that will enable
them to do similar things in the future.
So, for the United States, nuclear
issues, missiles, and regional uh
adventurism have always been the three
issues of importance. and those uh
issues have been shared by Europe and
Gulf partners, but how they're handled
has been the difference uh in in terms
of an approach.
>> How concerned are you that in response
to the full blockade by the United
States, Iran will get some of the Houthi
militants involved in the Red Sea and we
could see a more a broader blockage of
all transport in the region.
>> It's possible. However, the United
States uh has u u u will likely treat
the Houthis very harshly militarily and
I think you're probably seeing a lot of
diplomatic efforts by the Saudis uh to
constrain Houthi action. The Houthis
have on the ground issues dealing with
Yemen internal matters that have also
focused their attention and
traditionally the Houthis have focused
on Israel issues uh regarding Palestine
and their role has been limited thus
far. So it it it's a possibility but
thus far a limited one but it remains a
a possibility.
>> No, just a final question because it's
on people's minds. How do you think the
US would respond if a Chinese flag
vessel attempted to go through the stren
for us?
>> Uh intense diplomatic engagement with
the Chinese to ask them why they are
attempting to turn a regional conflict
into an international conflict and if
someone in Beijing had actually lost
their minds. Norman Ro, thank you sir of
CSIS.
Norm Blunt and the point with that final
reaction.
>> Well, ultimately though, how much is
everyone dancing around this? There were
reports over the weekend that uh China
was providing Iran with new anti-missile
capabilities uh with respect to their
air systems. Also ideas of potentially
China providing intel. So at what point
is this really all a buildup to that May
meeting between Xiinping and President
Trump? And you know, how do you create
enough of an uneasy piece to keep that
meeting on the books?
>> Looking at the markets this morning,
there is a real buy the dip type feel
coming from the research departments
across Wall Street at the moment. Lisa
mentioned the likes of Mike Wilson over
at Morgan Stanley. This from Black
Rockck. We'll catch up with John Bavan
in the next hour. Turning overweight US
equities on the AI theme. And perhaps
more interestingly with regards to
what's taking place in the Middle East
right now, upgrading EM equities to
overweight as of today.
>> Yeah, I'm curious which ones, right? How
much is this? the energy exporters
rather than the energy importers.
Nonetheless, there is a feeling that a
floor has been established and that
people are overlooking the good news
that we were focused on earlier this
morning. And people point to multiples,
the fact that multiples have gotten to
the lowest levels that we've seen in a
number of years, just simply based on
the rerating in [music] a number of
these names.
>> Equity futures negative just 0.6% to
kick off a brand new trading week.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Rakia Ibrahim of BCA Research with
crude trading back above $100. Plus,
Christina Kino drops by with your
morning movers. Energy stocks rising on
the hormones blockade thread. Those
stocks up anywhere between 2 [music] to
3%.
Equity futures this morning negative by
just 0.6%
>> [music]
>> 6% on the S&P 500 following the biggest
weekly gain of the year so far and also
following the first back-to-back [music]
weekly gains we've seen for 2026. Equity
futures down across the board here on
the Russell. We're down by one full
percentage [music] point. Let's get some
signal names and some morning movers.
Let's cross over to Christina Aino for
more. Good morning, Christine.
>> Good morning, John. Of course, energy
stocks in the spotlight today, leading
gains in the pre-market as oil climbs
back above $100 per barrel. And as we
await the US blockade of the straight of
Hormuse starting at 10:00 a.m. Eastern
time today. Now, higher oil prices not
just the only impact of the war in Iran.
Exon Mobile last week flagged a 6% loss
in its [music] global production in the
first quarter as the war paralyzed
operations in the Gulf. [music] We're
going to hear more about those details
as the company reports its earnings on
May 1st. We're also watching a NASDAQ
100 battle this morning. Sandis coming
out on top that is going to join the
index on April 20th and it's riding
high. Its shares hit an all-time high
since it went public in February of last
year. Now, of [music] course, one
company enters, another company exits.
That is unfortunately going to be
Atlassian. Those shares hit an
eight-year low last week as pain
continues for the software sector.
Another software stock that we're
watching this morning, Palunteer, of
course, it received a high-profile
endorsement from President Donald Trump.
The president praised the company's
quote warfighting capabilities in a
social media post. Of course, those
shares also getting bogged down in a
software downturn. They hit a 10-month
low last week. John
>> Christine, thank you. [music] Thank you
for the update. More from Christine in
the next couple of hours right here on
Bloomberg Surveillance. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
planning to block the Straight of
Horrors. The threat coming after the US
and Iran failed to make progress in
peace talks over the weekend. The
blockade is set to take effect at 10:00
a.m. Eastern time. Over in Hungary,
Victor Orbin's 16-year rule coming to an
end. The opposition party notching a
landslide victory. Peter Maga, the
country's next prime minister, outlining
sweeping changes to redefine Hungary's
political ties. And finally, Goldman
kicking off big bank earnings later on
this morning. analysts expecting the
bank to benefit from a trading windfall
fueled in part by volatility associated
with the Iran war. We'll bring you those
results in about an hour from now.
>> Yeah, key question is how do they see
the world going forward, right? How do
they sort of hedge for increasing tail
risks? And how much do they see
companies still wanting to either go
public, do mergers and acquisitions,
issue bonds? How wide open are capital
markets? Because right now ultimately
the bulls on the street what they're
talking about is an inelastic demand
from a lot of these companies to build
out AI to get bigger so they can be more
resilient. How significant do
geopolitical disruptions have to be to
disrupt that? And I think increasingly
that's what we're going to be looking
for in terms of commentary from the big
banks.
>> So the geopolitics might help in terms
of the trading windfall, but it might
cause a pause of things like M&A
activity. What I find fascinating is
that we're going to have the CEO
speaking around 9:30. That's when their
earnings call is and 30 minutes later
their blockade according to SenCom and
the president will begin. So, it's going
to be two interesting dynamics for Wall
Street.
>> The calls might be more interesting than
the results themselves. There's another
aspect I mentioned to the earnings for
the big banks this week. Certain stocks
like Goldman and Morgan Stanley have
started to trade with a private market
flavor over the last month or so. You
read into that whatever you want, but
ultimately they seem to be dragged down,
held back by difficulties experienced by
others over the past few months.
>> And they've come out and said that their
private credit unit has been insulated
because of their high institutional
involvement. A real question here about
how they tried to differentiate their
private credit units, but that's not the
whole story and I think you're pointing
to that which is essentially how much is
their exposure to other private credit
firms in the form of credit lines etc.
And then how much are they concerned
about a broader credit cycle that
private credit is just a note of, right?
It's sort of emblematic of and is the
sort of canary in the coal mine that
they're seeing percolate into other
sectors of their portfolio in particular
having to do with software.
>> That will be the main story in about 60
minutes time. The main story as things
stand so far this morning is this move
right here. WTI Brent higher by around
8%. crude surging back into triple
digits as markets await the president's
threatened blockade of the straight of
former Javier Blast of Bloom Bloomberg
opinion joins us now for more Jav
welcome to the program let's just think
this through how this is going to work
in practice several hours from now what
are you focused on
>> well uh two things uh I mean how real
the blockade is going to be and
particularly I want to see if the US
Navy is really going to stop Chinese
flag tankers getting out of Iranian
reports and going into into China. Is
that going to happen? Uh because to me
uh this blockade is targeting not just
Iran. Uh 95% of the Iranian oil is
bought by China. So this blockade has
two targets. Iran economic pressure on
the regime. China perhaps sharing a bit
of the pain put a skin on the game for
China perhaps in the hope that it's
going to put pressure on Iran to
negotiate farther. That's that's to me
the two indications. Not just focus on
Iran, but also focus on China.
>> Javier, let's go to the map. You know
the geography better than most. Just
outside of the street is an important
Iranian export hub. How extensive is
this blockade going to be? I
>> I think it's extensive because the the
Sencom, the US Navy has said that it
will include not just the ports in the
Persian Gulf, that's probably meaning K
Island, which is the largest one, but
also ports in the Gulf of Oman or the
Arabian Sea. So if that's the case, Jas,
which is the port that you are
referring, which is outside the state of
Hormus, will be also covered. That
probably can export as much as a million
barrels a day. But it seems that that's
going to be covered. So on paper, the US
Navy could stop every um Iranian oil
tanker leaving uh the region, not just
the Persian Gulf, but outside. And it
will mean that just taking away between
1.6 and 1.8 million barrels a day of oil
reaching the international market. So
today we have less oil into the market
that we have last week. Um perhaps
ironically, surprisingly, the price of
oil today is still lower than it was a
week ago despite the rally that we have
seen so far uh this morning and
overnight.
>> Well, let's focus on the paper rally.
The paper rally so far this morning and
Javier the disconnect between the
physical market and the paper market
which has been a feature of this war now
for the last five, six weeks. You speak
to the traders that trade the physical
produce, have the physical barrels. What
are they telling to you about shortages
emerging in places like Asia and perhaps
across Europe as well?
>> There are certainly shortages of
products, refined products in Asia.
There is also shortage of crude and if
you need what we have called A SAP
barrels, you need a barrel of oil for
tomorrow for your refinery, you are
going to have to pay a big premium over
where the market is. That is more than a
disconnect is the difference on timing.
The paper market is reflecting barrels
that they are needed in June. The
physical market is is reflecting the
barrels that they are needed tomorrow in
a refinery. Those barrels are very
pricey, $125 a barrel and higher. We
have seen oil changing hands at $150 a
barrel for delivery almost immediately.
The paper market is much lower above
$100 a barrel. And to be honest, you
have asked me a few months ago um where
the oil market will be today uh have all
what has happened over the last six and
a half weeks happened and going into a
full blockade of the Iranian ports by
the US Navy. I would have said that
prices much higher not just much higher
that where the paper market is. I would
have set prices much higher that where
the physical market is. Yeah. So all put
>> the price is not nearly as high as I
thought it would be. Javier, it's good
to see you and appreciate your work as
always. A clinic from one of the best
there. Have a blast out of London this
morning. Rakai Ibrahim of BCA research
writing the following. If enforced, the
blockade would raise the risk of a
breakdown in the ceasefire, an
escalation in the conflict and strikes
on regional energy infrastructure. Rakia
joins us now for more. Rai, welcome to
the program. Let's take it from the very
beginning. the flows that were going
through the straight of m before this
war started and where we are now given
the offsets from places like Saudi
Arabia and the east west p pipeline just
how dependent are we on the straight of
m
>> right good morning so I mean I think
that based on our calculations there are
still about 13 million barrels per day
that are locked in in the Persian Gulf
that's Gulf that's accounting for you
know the bypass routes through Saudi
Arabia the UAE the Iraq Seahhan pipeline
So there's, you know, still a big chunk
of global supply that's still locked in
from the Persian Gulf. Um, of that, as
Javiar pointed out, about 2 million
barrels a day are still coming out of
Iran. And so the risk now is that if
enforced, the blockade then, you know,
also locks those barrels into the
Persian Gulf and increases the amount of
oil that is locked in the Persian Gulf
from 13 million barrels per day to 15
million barrels per day. Rukaya, how far
are we from true shortages in Europe? I
know we're talking about Southeast Asia
is already experiencing that to some
degree, but things like jet fuel, things
like just basic natural gas. How far are
we from that spreading more widely?
I mean, we're already starting to see a
lot of that happen. You know, there are
already airports in Europe, for example,
in Italy that have announced that they
will be rationing um their supplies,
their jet fuel supplies. Um uh so we're
already starting to see that happen. And
as this disruption prolongs,
the risk then
is that, you know, these shortages are
going to become much more pronounced.
>> Ricaria, your line is a little bit shaky
at the moment. So we'll reestablish that
in the future and hopefully we can
connect again. And that was Rakia
Ibrahim there of BCA research. To
Javier's point, if we told you all of
this ahead of time, maybe back in late
February, that this is how things would
play out through spring. This is the
situation we'd be in. This is the US.
This is what they would do. This is how
the Iranians would respond. Tell me
where crude would price, where crude
would trade. Not just the paper market,
the physical market. I think a lot of
people might have turned around and told
you north of $200 a barrel. And that's
certainly not where we are so far this
morning. And there are two reasons why.
On one hand, people are taking a look at
just how much there was a glut before
this, right? A supply glut uh that was
uh giving some sort of cushion to prices
and prices have been significantly lower
as a result of the production. But the
second thing is people do believe this
to be shortlived and they do believe
this to get reopened which is a reason
why you're not seeing the oil curve
really uh steepen out. It's actually
deeply inverted, right? And this idea
that down in December we're going to be
fine. That belief still holds despite
the idea that we could see potential
escalation on a number of fronts.
>> Although Dr. Sultano Jabber, which runs
ADNO, was talking about the fact on
Friday that the final ships that left
Hormuse at the start of the war are now
at their destinations and there's not
another fresh batch of ships going. This
is also interesting. I know you're
talking about Europe, but China, their
imports from Saudi Arabia are going to
be halfed next month. So, we might be on
the precipice of the real physical
crunch in the upcoming weeks. I don't
look at the futures curve as a great
forecast but I do see it as a source of
comfort for a lot of people in equity
markets including the administration
because Kevin Hasset the C director
keeps referencing it. If you look at
where December is trading is still
trading in the 70s and I think that is a
source of comfort for a lot of people in
equities which of course is an anticip
anticipatory asset class and there is a
belief that things won't be as bad
deeper into the year and for that reason
you can look through some of the
physical stress. Now, the caveat to all
of that is that that's been the story
now for the last 6 weeks. And every week
that goes by, you do real damage. And
every week that goes by, it gets harder
to ramp up production after this all
ends. And if it ends anytime soon,
>> and it's not just oil, it's not just
natural gas, right? I mean, if you talk
about China, and it's not just a
question of whether they're going to be
able to power their factories because
they have a lot of renewable energies, a
lot of solar, a lot of nuclear. It's
also the physical goods that go into
plastics, that go into fertilizer, that
go into all the material goods that
people use. At what point do people
start realizing that? I mean I think to
your point there is a sense of comfort
that these that this situation has been
contained. What is the threshold to
really cross that? And we'll uh keep
gaming that out.
>> The EU commission president speaking
right now. Ursula Vondlayan this line
here on just how much the fossil fuel
import costs have gone up for the
European Union. This headline this
number 22 billion is the number coming
out of the EU so far this morning.
>> They're talking about potentially
cutting taxes. They're talking about
other types of fiscal measures. A really
interesting point that Carmen Reinhardt
of Harvard Kennedy School came out with
over the weekend is we're reaching the
limits to which developed markets can
really cushion the blow for a lot of
their consumers just based on how much
debt has been issued since the pandemic.
So again, these are the reasons why if
you really want to take a look and get
very nervous, there are plenty of
reasons to the market seems to be
getting very calm and frankly I'm trying
to get more signals from that rather
than just go full history.
>> It's a terms of trade shock for the
Europeans. It's why Euro dollar is
trading at 11688
and not north of 120 as many people
thought it might at the start of the
year. Up next on the program, a crude
awakening.
>> This shock is large. It is global.
Everybody uses energy. Everybody feels
the pinch of prices going up.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Andrew
Honhorse of City live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
If I told you overnight [music] the crew
would gamp by 7 to 8% when you woke up
Monday morning. Is this what you'd
[music] expect to see in the equity
market? Down just 6/10 of 1% on the S&P.
Likewise on the NASDAQ. This from Black
Rockck. [music] We'll catch up with Jean
Bavan in about 15 minutes time. US Iran
negotiations collapsed for now, but we
see [music] talks as evidence of an
economic incentive to end the conflict.
We upgrade risk in the US and in EM
stocks, too. Yeah, a number of Wall
Street firms have come out and said that
they're looking at multiples [music]
that have compressed substantially since
the beginning of this conflict, and
they're seeing an opportunity because
guess what? We didn't see extreme
escalation into more missiles flying.
[music] And you know what? Who knows
something that they don't know that's
going to get announced before that 10
a.m. blockade. So, you know what? Why
try to get [music] ahead of it?
Ultimately, look at valuations and get
in when it looks relatively cheap.
>> Crude this morning up by 7%, 102 on
Brent, WTI at 104. And Savas this
morning, a crude awakening.
This shock is large. 13% of oil, 20% of
gas that would have flown in the world
is now stuck for 5 weeks and counting.
>> It is global. Everybody uses energy.
Everybody feels the pinch of prices
going up.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Surging gas prices driving inflation to
a four-year high as the war with Iran
upends global energy markets. Andrew
Honhorse of City calling for 75 basis
points of Fed rate cuts this year,
writing, "We expect limited pass through
of higher energy prices to core
inflation." Andrew joins us now for
more. Andrew, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What was the lesson from Friday's data?
>> I think the lesson from Friday's data
was really about where we were coming
into this oil price shock. Um, of course
we saw the effect on gasoline prices, on
headline inflation. But if you look
through to core inflation, and again, we
really have to watch this over months as
we see does this energy price shock
transmit through. But we were in a
pretty good place on core inflation. You
look at that core CPI reading, 0.20%
month-on-month. That's the kind of
reading that we would have had pre-
pandemic. And then you look at the
subcategories, and I think that's even
more important. Shelter, the super core,
services, x shelter, and goods. All of
those kind of in their usual prepandemic
range. So, I know it's not where we were
where we are. If we hadn't had have had
these higher energy prices, I think we
would have been looking at that
inflation report and feeling pretty
encouraged.
>> You're focused on the demand side of
things. A lot of people are focused on
the supply side and have been for the
last 12 months. We've had negative
supply shocks to labor, negative supply
shocks to goods, and negative supply
shocks to energy. And yet, you're
focused on demand. Why?
>> Well, I'm trying to be an economist here
and I'm trying to watch, do we see the
effect on prices? You have a negative
supply shock, but then how is that being
balanced by demand? And if we have
strong demand, you're going to see
prices moving higher. In the labor
market, you'd see wages moving higher.
But that's not what I'm seeing. If I
look at the labor market, I'm seeing a
loosening w labor market with wages that
are slowing. If I look at prices, like
we just talked about, it looked like
those prices were slowing as well. When
you think about that shock from energy
prices, yes, it's a negative supply side
shock that's going to raise prices for
gasoline, but when you're paying more
for gasoline, it means you have less
money to spend on other goods. So, I
think it's actually going to be quite
difficult for firms to raise prices on
other goods.
>> Well, just to build on what John was
talking about, you've gotten this issue,
the Fed put out a paper last week or two
weeks ago talking about how the big
increase in core PCE over what it would
have been has largely been due to
tariffs. So, tariffs drove inflation for
a chunk of time. Now, that seems to be
waning and now we've got this issue. I
mean, at what point does shock upon
shock upon shock create just a baseline
inflation that has to be higher that
consumers kind of have to accept?
>> Yeah, that that's the issue that central
banks are struggling with and honestly I
think will be struggling with for years
to come. You get this series of negative
supply side shocks and even if each one
is in theory transitory, you start
layering those one on the other on the
other and you get a more persistent
period of higher more volatile
inflation. I think we live in a world of
higher more volatile inflation. In terms
of this specific shock though, like you
were saying, I think we're starting to
get the early signs that that that
tariff pass through, that passing
through of cost to consumers that is
playing out and will abate by the time
we get to the second half of the year on
the energy price shock. Still early
days, but it goes back to what you were
talking about earlier, what John was
talking about earlier. If the market
believes that oil prices will be back
down to $70 a barrel by December, then
firms are going to see this as temporary
and in a world of slowing incomes where
incomes are being hurt by higher
gasoline prices, I think it's just
really hard to come out and raise
prices.
>> How difficult is it to talk about the US
economy as a monolith? I mean, it's
increasingly bifurcated and people say,
well, it's an affordability issue and it
is for maybe 90 95% of the population,
but that 5% 10% of the population is
still spending. We're hearing that from
Delta. We're hearing that from all of
the airlines in terms of bookings and
how much people are willing to pay. At
what point can that keep inflation
higher even as a greater number of
people struggle to afford everyday
necessities?
>> Yeah, you look at the aggregate data on
things like consumer spending and they
look fine. And then you look at things
like credit card delinquencies. Credit
card delinquencies are actually
elevated. So how do you reconcile these
things? I think it's exactly what you're
saying. You have this bifurcation
between those who own real estate, own
equities. Those prices have run up so
much that that's really helping to
support consumption and spending for
higher income, higher wealth and lower
wealth, lower inome households are
struggling in this economy. Um again you
you would think that if we have a large
contingent of the US population that is
experiencing an affordability crisis
which you know we hear about um then it
is going to be difficult to generate a
lot of inflation in that type of an
economy and that does create downside
risk to the economy as well. So you we
can say there's been this negative
supply shock to the labor market. We
have a slower growth of population and
labor force. But when you have hiring
that's close to zero and that's that's
where we've been in recent months or
relatively close to zero really
difficult for people who are out of a
job um for younger people who are trying
to get their first job. So there are
cracks in this economy. It's just that
to your point there are some other kinds
of tailwinds that are holding things up
>> and inflation expectations ticked up
when you look at the Michigan consumer
sentiment survey. I know a lot of people
talk about how it's very political but
even for Republicans the outlook was
very dire. So we going to see consumers
just completely pull back. It could be a
self-fulfilling prophecy. I I think
you'll see some pullback there and you
did you saw the sentiment numbers dive.
You saw near-term inflation expectations
rise. I think one thing that's going to
keep central bankers, especially in the
US at the Fed, a lot more confident is
the fact that those longerterm inflation
expectations have stayed relatively
contained. They did rise in the
University of Michigan survey. But if
you look at the market based
expectations, those have really stayed
quite low. So another thing that's
giving central bankers confidence here.
>> You won't get the demand destruction if
they're cutting taxes. Another headline
from the Europeans. We were talking
about that address from the EU
Commission President Ursla Vanderlay and
Amarie looking at a proposal to lower
energy taxes
>> because it's really hitting their
consumers and also when you look at
energy in the European Union it is very
highly taxed which is why it's always
cheaper to get gasoline or petrol in the
United States. They're doing this in May
though. We are in April right now and
individuals and this is basically the
presentation of the proposal. They need
to maybe move a little bit quicker. And
to your earlier point about what's going
on in terms of the trade of her moves,
the reason why Europe right now is
buying so much Russian LNG is because
this reason right here, it's just too
expensive and they can't even get their
hands on it.
>> That's the kind of move that could make
things a little bit more complex for the
European Central Bank and the ECB. I
would argue that for all central banks
right now, how much are their hands tied
by a fiscal response that's going to
potentially increase inflation because
you're not going to let that part of the
population just completely decline
because this is increasingly a political
problem. So every lever that a lot of
the developed markets have pulled on has
been fiscal and fiscal spending which is
the reason why debt has increased to the
degree that it has and the reason why
people are concerned about the response
mechanism both on the fiscal and the
monetary side of things if there is
another economic downturn.
>> The Europeans have limited fiscal space.
Andrew, that much is true. The US
though, we've been talking about the tax
refunds now for quite a while in the US.
Doesn't this shock meet a tax refund
story that should lead to a cyclical
bounce in its economy?
>> Yeah. You know, you look at those tax
refunds and it's about 30 40 billion
above where we were last year in terms
of where we're coming in this year. And
then you look at well 30% higher
gasoline prices. How much is that going
to cost the American consumer? About $30
billion over a few months. So So it
looks like those are roughly balancing
out.
>> Andrew, good to see you.
>> Thank you. Thank you, sir. Andrew
Honhost there of City. The flavor on
Wall Street so far this morning
increasingly is by the dip in the equity
market. And you see that in a price so
far this Monday morning.
>> People don't believe the Sunday night
shockers anymore. I think that maybe
they're tired, maybe they're sick of it,
maybe they've seen this movie before,
but right now increasingly people are
conditioned to say something's going to
happen. Clearly, if no bombs are flying,
there is a sense of ongoing negotiations
and we're going to get caught on the
right side of this. I got so many
messages about Trump's blockade saying
[music] until what? There's a truth
Sunday night or at 9:30 a.m. when the
market opens 30 [music] minutes before
the blockade is supposed to take place.
>> Features this morning negative just
0.6%. Coming up next, Jean Bavan of
Black Rockck, Henry Trees of Vader
Partners, Chris Marinac of Breen [music]
Capital, and Ed our Husseini of Colombia
Thread Needle. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance is just around
the corner.
The president went into this thinking
this would be [music] a matter of weeks.
It is turning out to be a much bigger
military operation.
>> We are already living through the worst
case scenario. The US is not going to
allow Iran to continue to have this
leverage over the straight.
>> Now that we're in that nightmare
scenario, folks want to believe it's
going to end soon.
>> For Americans, there is no [music] doubt
that this spring is going to be a very
different expectation than what they had
before.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. It might
be surprising to a few of you. Running
down by 0.4% on the S&P 500. [music]
Likewise on the NASDAQ with this move in
crude, WTI and Brent. Looks like this so
far this morning. Both of those up this
morning by more than 7%. [music]
102 on Brent, 103 on WTI. Heading into
this later on this morning. 30 minutes
away. Bank earning [music] season begins
on Wall Street with Goldman Sachs at
7:30 Eastern time.
>> And it's going to kick off what people
in markets right now are truly
interested in, which is a how companies
have just [music] done and b how they're
going to navigate whatever is going to
come up next. How much do they see
companies still engaging emerges and
acquisitions? How much is this only
emphasizing the need to uh existentially
get into artificial intelligence art uh
get bigger so that you can withstand any
potential shock? These are the reasons
why people still have confidence that
earnings and uh and capital markets
activity will continue with whatever
happens over in the Middle East.
>> That's what's been anchoring the
bullcase now all year [music] throughout
this war. The outlook for earnings from
corporate America and just maybe it's
too soon to really [music] find out what
this energy shock means for earnings in
corporate America and for that matter
anywhere else in the world. How much
guidance [music] can they provide later
on this morning?
>> Well, it's challenging especially when
you get almost the administration
talking out of both sides of their
mouth. Just 3 weeks ago, they
unsanctioned Iranian oil at sea to then
this weekend say there's going to be a
blockade so no Iranian oil can get
through. Well, which do they want? And
the Iranians are coming out and they're
saying that if the security of their
ports are put in jeopardy, they're going
to get after other ports. So, this
energy shock might get a lot more
challenging [music] starting at 10:00
a.m.
>> That blockade begins just 3 hours from
now. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Jean Bavan of Black Rockck on why
he's upgrading the outlook for [music]
equities. Henry arrays of VA partners as
the US readies a homeless blockade and
Chris Marinac of Breen Capital as
Goldman kicks off earnings season. We
begin this out with stocks sliding as
crude jumps on President Trump's plan
for a US blockade in the straight of
Bloomberg's Jamai joins us now from
Dubai for more. Jamanna describe what's
going to happen three hours from now.
[laughter]
>> I wish I could tell you John exactly
what's going to happen three hours from
now. But another deadline to anticipate
of course for the region. Before I get
to the naval blockade, I just want to
reiterate something that Trump said
himself in his true social post
yesterday where he said that most points
had actually been agreed to in these
discussions over Islamabad, those
marathon negotiations over the course of
the weekend. But the one point that
really mattered that was not agreed to
was the nuclear point. And this was also
echoed, I should say, by the Iranian
foreign ministry spore ministry
spokesperson who said that there were
two to three outstanding issues. Now
obviously one of them is the nuclear
file file and we'll talk a lot more
about that I suspect in coming weeks.
The other one of them was the strait of
Hormuz because the US stance and they
went into these negotiations insisting
on an unconditional opening of the
strait. Iran reportedly said we will
only do that once these discussions are
over once i.e. we've reached a peace
agreement. Obviously an outcome that is
unacceptable for the US and for many uh
Gulf states as well. And so what the US
has announced yesterday essentially is
their own naval blockade to block the
blockaders so to speak and that goes
into effect in a couple of hours time.
Lots of questions still about how it's
going to be implemented, if they're
going to follow the Venezuela model, if
they're going to seize ships, if they're
going to be monitoring, inspecting, how
far along the lines of of military
action they're going to go. But then the
other key question to that is how
exactly Iran are going to respond. And
already Iranian state TV are saying that
the naval armed forces see this as a
quote unquote act of piracy and that any
attack on an Iranian port would then uh
incentivize them to retaliate on other
ports in the region as well. So we could
see a further military escalation if
that does indeed happen. Uh but I should
also remind everybody that the ceasefire
is still being upheld. There have been
no reported incidents in the last 24
hours and both sides have come away from
the weekend talking about some progress.
So we'll see the next 24 48 hours are
going to be crucial in terms of where
this blockade goes. But I I will just
say that there is an element of cautious
optimism in this part of the world that
perhaps you know this attempt by the US
to rest back the straits may succeed in
terms of furthering those discussions
because it would incentivize Iran to
come to the table and provide more
concessions away from their effective
control of the straight of harms
>> escalate to deescalate. We've heard that
a few times with the president of the
United States. Bloom back doing a
tremendous job of leading our coverage
out of Dubai and across the Middle East.
This is a tense moment. We've got no
idea what happens in the next 3 hours.
You've got crude gapping up, gapping
higher by 7% on Brent, 7% on WTI and yet
equities are down by just 4/10en of 1%.
So what gives? This is the view on Wall
Street this morning. Jean Bavar
Blackrock writing, "US Iran negotiations
collapsed for now, but we see talks as
evidence of an economic incentive to end
the conflict. We upgrade risk in the US
and EM stocks." Jean joined us now for
more. Jean, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's just start from the very
beginning. After the news over the
weekend, many people were looking for a
wash out in risk, particularly given the
weekly gain we just had last week. Just
walk through why things are so much more
stable than anticipated so far today.
Yeah, I mean uh you know there's a this
is a very volatile environment and
there's a a danger to be uh trading the
headlines by the minute. [clears throat]
Um we've turned uh neutral risk
downgraded risk sorry uh on March 23rd.
Uh at that point we thought like you
know oil prices were um you know reseted
high very high uh in the above 110 range
and in a world like this if it's
sustained we don't see how equities can
and risk asset can perform. Um and so we
we downgraded risk. Uh but since we've
seen the um ceasefire uh being put in
place last week, um we didn't expect
that to be a smooth ride for two weeks.
But the point is that the um ability to
at least have talks and u you know
reduce the uh the tension for for the
time being uh at least on the military
side of things uh to us shows that there
are very powerful economic incentives at
play that will shape uh the response of
all the actors. I mean it's not only
about the US or Iran, it's also about
China and we think that this is evidence
of that being pretty powerful for now.
So that's what is behind uh that that
upgrade for now.
>> You're not the only one who's come to
that conclusion. I'll put that there.
How you express risk though is
interesting. US equities, you could say,
is anchored to the AI tech story. We can
spend some time on that. The EM piece of
this is interesting. The riskreward in
EM given we've got absolutely no idea
what's going to happen in the Middle
East anytime soon. Why the EM piece of
the upgrade too? just just to start on
the on the US piece of it. Uh you know
there's a in this upgrade that we think
like it's risky not to take risk uh in
this environment. If you sit out and you
wait I mean it's going to be bad for our
clients. If if we were to see some
significant rally there's a relative
aspect to it which is even if we are to
see tension to continue I think the US
perform relatively better than other
places. So that's the upgrade to the US
and the AI AI story being very powerful
still there. On the EM side of things,
we think that there is um uh we've been
positive on EM more broadly, but I think
the um Europe is very uh you know more
directly affected by this. So that's not
as attractive from a DM perspective. Uh
US as I mentioned is is more attractive.
So that leaves uh EM on a relatively
more attractive basis and we see uh we
see uh tailwinds behind um you know we
don't think the dollar will be
necessarily uh you know going on a very
strong u has been strengthening but we
think this is in the context where we
see a softer dollar than we've seen over
the last few years that still is a
constructive backdrop for EM and then
within the EM there are places like
India and other places where we think
that they are better positioned to uh at
the middle at the you know junction of
our mega forces like AI by digital
finance uh and the geopolitical
landscape that might be easier for them
to navigate. Why isn't it a concern that
a lot of the emerging markets you
mentioned India India I would also
mention a lot of Southeast Asia and
China are energy importers right I mean
there's going to be a higher premium on
a lot of commodities including energy is
that a potential headwind to that call
>> it definitely is headwind again I think
we want to think about this on a
relative basis uh but if we were of the
view that we're going to see old prices
that stay uh or continue to increase
from here and that's uh then the basis
for this year that would not be
consistent with this call. So I think we
are expecting here some deescalation uh
eventually and uh you know it's not
going to be a straight line uh and
that's the world in which like we see
some easing of the pressure that you
would see in Southeast Asia and other
places like this. But if again uh things
will be in flux we've we'll continue to
monitor but if we were to see uh it
boils down the straight needs to reopen
and if if if it does start to show sign
of reopening eventually uh and we get
visibility on this I think that is
consistent with the call. If it doesn't
then we'll need to reassess. The nuances
of the bullishness on Wall Street are
really interesting to me. And it's not
all the same, but for you and the team,
it seems like a big part of the story is
that valuations in big tech got really
reduced over the past couple of months.
You haven't seen a reclaim leadership.
You haven't seen new highs for a number
of months. And this is the main issue
for you that that you're seeing the
upside there because earnings are
expected to increase by 46% in this
quarter alone. you know, how much is
that really the driver of bullishness
that has absolutely nothing to do with
the Middle East and frankly absolutely
nothing to do with the broader US
economy?
>> Well, I don't I don't think we can avoid
the Middle East and the broad risk
sentiment is is definitely massively
affected by this. But we think like we
need to look through the day-to-day
noise and again I think in the context
where uh there is potentially a path
forward now for some talks eventually
that lead to some uh deescalation then
in that context then I think the
spotlight goes back to the earning story
and uh the derating we've seen and I
think we look at that as pretty
attractive in a world where we would see
the deescalation. So I think it's not
like you can forget about the Middle
East, but uh if you think there's going
to be a path over the next few months
where we see more clarity of
descalation, deescalation, then um then
that's exactly right. I think the
earning story becomes the main one.
>> But it's not just oil, as we've spoken
about. What about the fact that helium,
which is a key part of the hyperscaler
trade, Taiwan right now is critical
shortages of this.
>> It it is a it is a global supply chain
shock, right? To your point, it's not
about oil only. It's about LG. It's
about like a bunch of uh uh elium uh and
other kind of um you know inputs that go
into a lot of global supply chain which
is why it boils down to the straight
reopening. Um this is this is all it is
about. And uh if we were again to expect
this to uh to continue and to see
disruption, it's not only about oil. I
mean we would have like a a you know it
could be one of the biggest supply shock
we've seen uh even to the level we've
seen the 70s
>> but your call insinuates then that the
straight open soon.
>> Yeah. So, so this is all predicated uh
on uh eventually flow restarting and we
think there's going to be damage right
even with what's already in place like
we see a hit to US GDP that is of the
order of.3 uh global growth will be
affected the in Europe it's more like uh
between half and full percentage point
on growth. So there there's damage
that's going to persist. We think that
if we see some of the escalation and the
straight reopening then in that case the
earning story and so on becomes the key
risk driver. But yes, uh there's there
is a scenario where this is a real
supply truck and in that case if it
doesn't reopen um we'll need to reassess
um that bullishness for sure.
>> For now this market is itching to move
on. Goldman reporting in about 20
minutes time tomorrow JP Morgan, Wells
Fargo City. The day after that we'll
hear from Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley. What are you and the team
looking for from the seauite on these
earnings calls in the next few days?
>> Yeah, I think we need to see some uh
continued resilience. uh you know uh
there's going to be stories potentially
about increased cost uh that has been
starting to fetch through. It's going to
be interesting to see how much of this
we've seen, but I think we're going to
be in a in a mindset of like looking
through right now uh that story because
that should be uh eventually resolving
resolving itself. I think we're going to
be interested to see on the AI piece how
much of you know stories there is around
the efficiency gains. I mean that's the
part that still needs to be documented
uh and to to kind of justify forward
earnings that will come to that. So I
think these will be the two things we'll
be uh we'll be paying close attention
to.
>> John, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Great to see you. Jean Bavand there
of Black Rockck upgrading US equities
and EM equities at a very tense moment.
We talked about the conditioning and the
regret, the regret of not getting long
quickly enough back in April 2020, doing
the same thing again in April 2025. And
you can feel a lot of people looking to
get long early in this crisis, too.
>> How many times can you get stung before
you start to respond? I mean, it's fool
me once, shame on me. fool me twice.
Shame on me. And there is that feeling
right now in Wall Street. It's all
predicated, as John kept saying, on the
idea that the straight does get
reopened. Although people taking cues
from the idea that yes, it is hardline
rhetoric, but it isn't coming with the
idea that talks are dead. So ongoing
talks, a good sign, green light for Wall
Street.
>> You got one right, Bremo. I was happy
with that. Thanks. I was impressed.
>> I I very rarely happen.
>> People stumble on that one, too.
>> Well, you know, that's the reason why
that's the one expression I'll get
right. I will completely bungle every
other one that I do today. I never get
them right, so [laughter] I don't even
try.
>> Okay,
>> up next on a program, choking [music]
the straight of former.
>> As you know, at 10:00 tomorrow, we have
a blockade going into effect. That'll be
10:00 tomorrow. Other nations are
working so that Iran will not be able to
sell oil and uh that will be very
effective.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Henrietta
Trace of Vader Partners live from
[music] New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> earning season upon us on Wall Street.
Goldman Sachs kicking things off at 7:30
[music] Eastern time. And then a busy
one through the week. Coming up
tomorrow, JP Morgan, Wells Fargo, City
on [music] Wednesday, Bank of America,
and Morgan Stanley. The scores into it
all. Look how K so [music] far this
morning. Equity futures on the S&P
negative just 0.5% [music] anchored by
the hope that we can move on in the
Middle East quickly. I tell you what,
we'll figure out that hope is misplaced
or not because at the moment that
tension is still in the physical market,
still in the paper market as well. Look
at the oil [music] market this morning.
WTI Bren so far trading higher by more
than 7%. Brent back in the triple
[music] digits. WTI likewise under
Savylvanas this morning choking the
straight of
>> remember their promise was that they
were going to open the harmonous
straight. They didn't do it. They lied.
As you know at 10:00 tomorrow we have a
blockade going into effect. That'll be
10:00 tomorrow. other nations are
working so that Iran will not be able to
sell oil and uh that will be very
effective.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Iran
threatening retaliation if the US
follows through with a plan to blockade
the strate warning quote no port in the
Persian Gulf and the Sea of Aman will be
safe. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us
now for more. Morning Tyler.
>> Hey John, good morning. While US Central
Command has confirmed that this blockade
that will start at 10:00 a.m. Eastern
will extend to all Iranian ports, though
importantly says the US military will
not impede any vessels going to and from
non Iranian ports. So technically not a
full blockade, though still one with big
implications if enforced. We still have
questions on exactly how this will be
enforced. Though President Trump has
previously threatened that the US could
board and seize any ships that have paid
tolls to Iran, that the US is also going
to start to work on clearing mines in
the straight of Hermuz amid the major
buildup of military assets in the
region. It may be worth mentioning that
the US currently has more than 20
warships that could be deployed for this
operation, including some amphibious
assault teams. Now, as you've already
mentioned, we are hearing that Iran will
likely retaliate if the US starts with
this uh blockade at 1000 a.m. Eastern.
For example, we got a statement
overnight from the IRGC saying that any
military vessel that enters the straight
of Hormuz will be viewed as a violation
of the ceasefire. Now, from President
Trump's point of view, he's doing this
in a bid to maintain leverage over Iran,
try to crack down on its financial
lifeline after we saw negotiations this
weekend not yield any result. Now, we
are getting some breaking headlines on
the terminal. The Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu speaking right now,
saying that he has spoken to Vice
President JD Vance, who led these
negotiations and that one of the main
points of contention is that uh Iran
will not allow the removal of that
enriched uranium. They're still trying
to figure out where to go from there. As
John, a US official does tell Bloomberg
News that the US delegation felt that
the Iranian delegation did not see the
US's main objective as being trying to
curb its ambitions when it comes to its
nuclear program. We can point out that
in an interview over the weekend,
President Trump himself did say that he
thinks Iran will come to the negotiating
table and Iran's foreign ministry
spokesperson added that um it makes
sense that they weren't able to come to
an agreement after just one single
session leading open the door for more
negotiation.
>> The hope is the talks will continue.
Tana, thank you. And the ceasefire will
hold. But that's not just a sticking
point, Amarie. That is the sticking
point.
>> Yeah. When it comes to having a nuclear
weapon, that has been the sticking point
for Trump one. That was also a sticking
point for even the Biden administration
that had talks for the entire four years
with the Iranians. And then this
administration came in and they've had
multiple discussions with the Iranian
regime. Now there's different players,
but it's the same regime. They have the
same goals as well. And at the moment,
both of these red lines are hardened.
>> Here's the view this morning from Hener
Trees of Vader partners. She writes the
following. The blockade escalates
everything. There's no acceptable
outcome that maintains the Iranian tax
or Iranian control of the strait.
Henrietta joins us now for more.
Henrietta, welcome. The market mood, I
have to tell you, is pretty subdued.
Tense, but pretty subdued. Equities only
down by point4.5%.
How tense do you think things will be in
the next 24 hours through the straight
form?
>> I mean, as the straight perpetuates and
stays closed, I mean, how do you get
non-Iranian ships through, but the other
ones can go through? You hear directly
from the insurers, they just don't have
comfort that you can physically traverse
safely. There's 230 ships that are
trying to get through and some of them
are turned around. There's one trying to
navigate right now. For my latest
understanding, as long as the straight
is closed and we're no longer getting
flow as of this week from pre-war,
you're going to start start to see the
economic effects compound. The street is
optimistic, I think, in large part
because they don't have guidance from
earnings yet. We're going to get banks,
you know, this week, but that's not
really the hard hitters. We need
industrials. Um, and the worst case
scenario is sort of unfathomable. So,
we're sort of jumping right over it, but
the insurers have the best points per
usual.
>> Henrietta, it's not just the blockade.
On Friday, after 1201, I didn't see an
extension from OFAC on the general
license for individuals ability to
purchase Russian crude. So, how tight is
this market going to be? And do you
think because of that reason, Treasury
will have to give certain waiverss to
certain countries?
I am in a fight with somebody that I've
been in for decades about what is more
important tax policy or energy policy
and tax policy wins again. So here we
are. We have this situation where they
want to have a toll that gets collected
through the straight before it moves and
the straight it the tax itself is
illegal and if you pay the toll which is
obviously a willing development and you
allow the ship to go through then now
not only the insurer but the tanker
itself is violating US sanctions laws
that JD Vance was not able to negotiate
for obvious reasons in Pakistan this
last weekend. So you have a situation
where the tax itself is the core
problem. You cannot allow the tax to be
collected and also continue to have a
sanction in effect and declare the
>> But how does that even make sense?
Because OFAC right now technically and
until another week or two is allowing
the purchase of Iranian crude if it was
at sea.
>> If it's at sea, and that's the key
distinction, and they're purposely being
murky about this. But if you pay the
toll, which is different, that's trying
to go through, then you are violating
the sanction. and it carries a double
fine of whatever it is that you paid. So
if you're paying, you know, $2 million
to get through, you owe Uncle Sam $4
million, and it carries with it a
potential lifetime imprisonment should
anyone die on the route. So there's two
different things. There's allowing it to
go through under the GMU from March
20th, and then there's paying the toll,
which is a different animal.
>> In the meantime, there's a real question
about the fiscal levers that the US can
pull. We've gotten headlines from the
Europeans this morning saying that
they're thinking of removing some of the
taxes or lowering the taxes tied to
energy. What kind of fiscal response
could there be from the US side of
things?
>> Yeah, really great question. So,
Republicans are working on a
reconciliation bill and because the
scale of this bill could escalate
dramatically and end up in the $700
billion range or above, that's what
history suggests. They're purposely
telegraphing that it's going to be tiny
and it's only going to be associated
with like ICE and C uh uh DHS and those
kinds of components, but we know that
there is an 18.4% gas tax paid at the
federal level and a 24.4% diesel tax
paid at the federal level that they
could suspend via reconciliation. that
is a perfect bird rule applicable um
component that could get their
reconciliation package but it's very
expensive and we have a perfect case
study in Georgia which just approved
this since the start of the war and
guess what prices in Georgia are right
back to where they were before they did
the gas tax and that's because prices
continue to go up so it's a temporary
stop gap it doesn't solve the problem as
you know all of your guests have
suggested
>> Henrietta always good to see you to get
your thoughts thank you Henrietta trace
there of VA partners the mix right now
the data has not been great particularly
on Friday heading into the weekend had
CPI come in at the hottest level we've
seen in several years. At the same time,
you Mitch, whatever you think about you,
Mitch, I think direction is probably
correct. Consumer sentiment record lows.
Consumer sentiment is clearly softer
after this war and the higher energy
prices we've seen over the last month.
>> Clearly, they're concerned about
inflation. They're also concerned about
jobs. I mean, to Andrew Hanhor's point
to to that point, you're not seeing the
same kind of heat coming from people's
perception of whether they can get a job
and whether they can continue to get
paid. Certainly not at the level that
would compensate them for inflation. So
what's the fiscal response and how much
is the US limited by how much debt it
has incurred over the past couple of
years?
>> Earning season begins on Wall Street.
Yes.
>> You happy with that? Green light's just
gone off. [laughter]
>> Goldman Sachs.
>> Yeah, they're ultimately beating and
that's the issue, right? How much are we
going to keep on seeing this across the
board uh going forward? We'll break down
all the numbers, but beating uh almost
across the board. Fick maybe not, but
the rest looking really good.
>> We'll spend some more time on Goldman in
just a moment. Danny's going to break
down the numbers with us. Plus, we'll
catch up with Chris Marinac of Bring
Capital as Goldman kicks off earnings
season. A [music] week full of earnings
from the financials from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Snapped a 7-day winning streak on Friday
in the equity market. Just a touch of
negative follow through this morning.
We're down by 0.6% 6% following the
events over the weekend in the Middle
East. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.6.
Also, on the Russell, [music] we're
negative by 0.9. First out of the gate
on Wall Street, it's Goldman Sachs.
Earning season begins. Danny Burgerer
has [music] the results. Morning, Danny.
>> Good morning, John. It's the headline
number that's going to catch everybody's
attention. A huge beat for equity
trading, $5.3 billion. To be clear, this
is a record and a quarter, not only for
Goldman, but for any bank ever on Wall
Street. It beats its prior water high
water mark by $1 billion. You can see
though shares are off nearly 610 or now
more than 1%. This might be the reason
because even though they have a huge
beat when it comes to equity tradings, a
huge miss when it comes to their fick
expectations. $4 billion as revenue is
what comes in for fick trading. The
estimate was closer to $5 billion. So
they're off by about um uh uh8 billion
which is a disappointment for this
market because many had expected
equities trading revenue to be strong.
Elsewhere M&A results advisory fees 89%
higher than this time last year. We knew
it was a record quarter for M&A for the
entirety of this market. So Goldman
Sachs earnings reflecting that too.
Their global banking and markets net
revenue comes in just below 13 billion
dollars at 12.7 billion dollars. That is
a beat. Just looking for anywhere in
these results you might see some credit
fears. Uh provisions for credit losses
did go up about nine 10% over year at
$315 million, but we have certainly seen
it higher in prior quarters. And their
asset management, you did see AUM beat
expectations $3.7 trillion. Goldman
Sachs had said that they were immune
from most of the fears of private credit
selling that you've seen in some retail
funds. Though net revenues did fall
compared to the same period last year.
Also a note of caution when it comes to
the geopolitics in this earnings as
well. The geopolitical landscape remains
very complex. So discipline risk
management must remain core to how we
operate. Shares though continue to fall.
John, it seems to be that that thick
miss uh a dark spot on an otherwise
solid earnings result.
>> Stock is down by more than 2% of the
pre-market. Danny, stay close. I'll come
back to you in just a moment. Just to
break this down very quickly. Stock
trading comes in much firmer than
anticipated. Another record. Danny went
through the numbers. Just think about
this. The record in the previous quarter
was 4.31 billion. The record now is 5.33
billion. So that's the good news for
Goldman. The misses on Fick and we can
talk about that extensively throughout
this morning. Weather is also some
strength and Danny talked about it too.
That 89% and let's call it surge in deal
making advisory fees speaks to a theme
that a lot of people were jumping on
board for coming into this year and why
this part of the market was a consensus
overweight. It's mergers and
acquisitions. It's corporate bond
issuance. It's IPOs. And when you take a
look at equity underwriting, debt
underwriting, both beating by a
significant margin. If you look at
equity underwriting, it's up 45%
year-over-year in terms of the fees that
they're receiving. So, capital markets
wide open. The bank's profiting off of
this. The concern going forward really
speaks to what David uh Solomon is
talking about. Their conditions are
uncertain. Key questions in the call.
How is that affecting the forward
pipeline of M&A? Is it falling away or
is it continuing to be strong? And how
high is the bar to close capital
markets? Because right now it seems like
they're wide open. So yes, they might be
missing on the actual transactions in
FIC, but they're certainly not missing
in equity and there still is this
pipeline that a lot of people say
continues to build.
>> And Danny, just quickly, I want to bring
you back in. You mentioned the credit
story, and this is important for a lot
of people outside of this stock just
trying to understand what's happening
here because this stock in the minds of
many has been held back by what's been
happening elsewhere in private markets.
And we started to see that in Morgan
Stanley the way it traded as well. What
have we learned so far this morning?
>> Well, it again it seems like strength
the asset management division where
maybe you would see some of the credit
fears play in. They did indeed beat an
AUM if you did have people pulling back
because there is a fear over private
credit. That's where it would show up
with less fundraising and less assets
managed. Now again, we've heard from
Goldman Sachs uh recently, just last
week, saying that GS Sam's BDC's their
more uh private uh retail oriented
private credit funds have fared better
than others. And again, loan loss
provisions, those were higher than last
year, but nothing out of the norm. And
again, it's it's notable that in David
Solomon's comments, he talks about
geopolitical risk. If you were to get
anything from the CEO of Goldman Sachs
concerned about private credit, you
might expect it to show up there. We'll
see what he says on an earnings call,
but it doesn't seem to be bubbling
anywhere near the surface as concerns
for this big bank.
>> Danny, appreciate the update. Danny,
thank you. Goldman down by, let's call
it 2.7% in early trading. Chris Marin of
Brink Capital joins us now for more.
Chris, welcome to the program. How
difficult is it to anchor the outlook in
a moment like this?
>> Well, John, I think that you may have
trading losses in thick and that might
be part of the problem. So, I think as
you move forward, this may not be as big
of an issue. I think the pipeline being
very strong on the banking side is very
important. So I do think that is a win
in the quarter. I still think that
seasonally the second quarter is also
very strong. So I think the market can
look past this disappointment initially.
>> Do you have a sense of what David
Solomon could be talking about when he
said that he had seen uh some concerns
he's worried about geopolitics. What are
you looking for in how he speaks about
that to get some guide on when it could
hamper some of this capital markets
activity?
Well, I think it's things that are not
announced that are in the works and I
think that there tends to be a attitude
to go on hold when you have this
geopolitical uncertainty and that's the
part that you can't uh account for. So I
think as May and June come into greater
focus I think there is a high
uncertainty and I think he is trying to
give a signal that that indeed may be
the case. High uncertainty is part of
what he might be pointing to when you
take a look at the 10% build in
provisions for credit loan losses, which
is something that we heard uh Danny
talking about. Now, it's $315 million.
Is that number significant to you, or
does that signify still a pretty benign
credit backdrop?
>> Well, I think the credit has its own
uncertainties, particularly in the
private credit world. I think you have
to build reserves now just to be safe.
So, I think the attitude about having
higher provision is smart. to some
extent I think the market would be
disappointed if you had not built
reserves at this juncture
>> at this point though is that a
significant build right I mean I guess
I'm trying to get some perspective on
this does that indicate that they're
really concerned about stress because
right now you're not seeing it and in
any of the preliminary comments but this
is the fear aside from private credit
it's the broader sense of rerating and
specific wholesale industries in the
credit area particularly tied to
software disruption trade etc I mean how
much would you expect loan losses to
have to increase to truly offset some of
that potential risk.
>> So, I think it's a moderate bill to your
first question, Lisa, and I think going
forward, I think you have to have a
significant change in credit losses to
really warrant uh much greater concern.
I think right now it's a preliminary
move to be conservative to uh to to uh
plate I think investor concerns that
perhaps the companies aren't doing
enough. So, I' expected to see some
provision increase this quarter. So, I'm
not that surprised by it. Chris, this
year we were meant to see a boom in
economic activity, particularly the kind
of boom that some of these names would
take advantage of. We still might see
two or three of the biggest IPOs we have
ever seen in the history of capital
markets. Chris, which banks are in a
position to take advantage of that?
>> Well, clearly the the national leaders
from the JP Morgan and BFA and Goldman
uh should have that. I think those big
IPOs are still out there. I agree with
you, John. It's a long year, so I would
not give up hope at all. I think this
uncertainty can pass just like it did
last year. U so I still think there's a
very good road ahead.
>> Are you willing to look through some of
the gloom that might take place on some
of these calls? Chris, no executive
wants to be dismissive of risk that
might be brewing. Not a single executive
on Wall Street wants to be the person
that does that on these earnings calls.
Do you think they might really
understate the potential for gains in
the year ahead? And I'm not just
thinking of Solomon later. I'm thinking
of maybe diamond tomorrow.
>> Oh, sure. I think they're going to be
very careful and cautious. No different
than they were in April of 2025. You
know, we had liberation day and then
markets were very uneasy for several
days as you remember. And most calls
were very sort of quasi negative and
cautious in April of 25. It turned out
to be a much better year as the second
quarter played out. So, I think this
could be a repeat. Uh just totally
different circumstances. Chris, is it
basically a quarter where numbers could
be pretty solid, but the rhetoric is
concerning given what's going on in the
world that shares ultimately just are
depressed?
>> Well, I think investors always hit the
sidelines when you have uncertainty and
I think we have that moment. They acted
better last Thursday, Friday than I
would have thought quite honestly. I do
think the rhetoric could could keep uh
the incremental buyer um holding back uh
in the short run. So, the stock right
now in trading and pre-market uh on this
FIC miss and I'd love to get your sense
of why you saw such a big miss when it
comes to FIC sales and trading. A real
concern here is that interest rates are
going to be higher and that potentially
incredibly volatile making it really
difficult for big banks. How much of a
headwind is that? I mean, are we
skipping over that too quickly?
>> Well, I think people had thought that
the Fed would be easing once or twice as
we got in the second quarter. That
obviously is off the table. So that is
part of the headwind. I think to some
extent the uncertainty about whether the
war is going to go away or still be
lingering for the next four to six weeks
also is a concern. I think to some
extent there was a lot of optimism built
into this quarter from a trading
perspective. So now that you have a
slight miss that push pushes everybody
now to be negative. I think that's a
shortrun thing. I think we still have a
lot of positivity happening in the
business. you know, on the ordinary bank
side, the deposits are growing really
well, and that's ultimately going to
have many uh players buying securities
as this next two quarters play out.
>> You know, volatility is a funny thing.
On one hand, volatility can be really
good for the banks, and they'll say,
well, we benefited from the volatility.
You see this in equity trading. On the
other hand, it can be bad when it is
just an unpredictable macro environment.
Are we entering bad volatility or good
volatility? I mean, what do you expect
the commentary to be from the big banks?
Well, most of the volatility I think is
positive. I think the companies
understand how to make a dollar when you
have these topsyturvy markets. They've
been here before. We've seen many
examples of volatility the past several
years. So, I think it's just a different
circumstance, but the same volatility to
some extent. I think volatility is your
friend. But, you may have had a loss at
the Goldman Quarter and I think as we
see the other players come out the next
couple of days, it may look and feel a
lot different.
>> Chris, it's always good to hear from
you. Chris Marin there of Bring Capital.
Just setting the tone for earning season
ahead of us. We just heard from Goldman.
Tomorrow you hear from JP Morgan, Wells
Fargo, and City. The day after on
Wednesday, you'll hear from Bank of
America and from Morgan Stanley. It's
not a tremendous start for the
financials. It's mixed, which isn't
great, particularly given that so far
this month, Goldman was higher by
something like 7%. It's trading lower
this morning by 3 to four. The good side
of things, equity trading, deal making,
advisory fees, fantastic. The soft spot
seems to be fixed so far this morning.
Yeah, they still beat though on the EPS.
They still beat pretty much across the
board as you're saying. So, does this
indicate how high the bar is right now
for earnings in a way given the fact
that the entirety of the resilience in
the equity market is predicated on this
idea that there's going to be a really
strong feel and uh the beats are going
to be much better than people had
previously expected. The fact that
people are so nitpicking again that
tells you maybe where we are and the
expectations that are baked in to the
stock market.
>> To Chris's point, we played this game 12
months ago. You're in a position where a
lot of people are looking for earnings
to anchor the outlook for guidance from
the seauite to give you some visibility
and no one in the seauite wants to
really express any real confidence about
the next 12 months given the real risk
they're seeing take place on the ground
in the Middle East and that was the
story of April last year and that wasn't
a good guide for the direction of
equities and the argument you'll get
from the bulls misplaced or otherwise
that's your judgment call but the
argument you'll get from the bulls this
morning is they can't provide any
optimism in a moment like this so why
would you listen to them
>> it would be incredibly tonedeaf for them
to come out and This is incredible.
Volatility is absolutely rocking us and
we're doing a really good job. We're
going to have record earnings. We're
seeing incredible mergers and
acquisitions. Although likely we will
hear more of that. So yes, you can
expect some dampened uh enthusiasm. That
said, if they give a sense of the
pipeline being strong of deals still
going through of some of those mega IPOs
that we're expecting later this year to
still come to market, does that assuage
some of the concern? I don't know. I
mean, really, this is going to be
scenario analysis. And I keep going back
to that. What's the potential bare case
for you? What's the potential bull case?
How big of a delta is there between
that? I also think though the seauite
needs to expand upon what how they feel
right now and where we are in the world.
The geopolitical landscape remains very
complex. So discipline risk management
must remain core to how we operate. You
could print that on every single
>> of course
>> every single statement.
>> I've never enjoyed that phrase
geopolitical risk. Never really enjoyed
it. Tell me about the flow of money, the
flow of capital. The Middle East is a
source of capital and destination for
capital and how that's changed and what
you're seeing, what kind of visibility
you have on those things. No doubt the
analyst will ask those questions on the
call a little bit later.
>> And no doubt the answer will be so far
so good. They're are major clients. I
mean, who are you talking to at that
point too, right? You're talking to the
US authorities, but you're also talking
to all of your big Middle Eastern
investors. You have to keep them happy.
This is going to be a fraught moment, a
lot of noise. Really look at the
numbers. And I think that that is the
key question. How much are we going to
be watching money flows to really get
the answers?
>> Goldman in the pre-market down by a
little more than 3%. Up next on the
program, an inflationary shock for the
Fed. You can look through a particular
month, particularly [music] driven by by
gas prices. Our baseline is that we will
get a cut in the back half of the year.
Um, but kind of confidence in that has
has waned. [music]
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Ed Al
Husseini of Columbia Thread Needle live
from New York City. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Early season begins on Wall Street.
Goldman the first name out of the gate.
Goldman Sachs [music] down by 3.5%. A
bit of a stumble out of the gate. On the
good side of things, equity trading,
deal making advisory fees on the bad
side of [music] things. Fit just softer
than expected. Yeah, and this really uh
highlights the high bar for a number of
names, especially those that are still
trading at a relatively high book to
value uh ratio, booktoloone ratio, which
is the reason why people are looking not
only at what the earnings are, but what
the expectations are, which for some
companies have gone way down and others
[music] not so much.
>> As Goldman trades a little bit softer,
lower this morning. The broader equity
market does as well. S&P 500 futures
[music] down by 0.7%.
The NASDAQ down by.7 also a chorus on
Wall Street though from bankto bank
Morgan Stanley JP Morgan Black Rockck
HSBC [music] take your pick. So many
people lining up to say buy the dip get
long this equity market it's time to
look through the risk in the Middle East
>> and part of the reason why is because
you haven't seen an [music] escalation
that really does shatter the ceasefire
entirely and talks are ongoing also
because they've been fooled many times
and also because earning season is
expected to be uh really good. Earnings
are expected to increase by more than
12%. you're expected to see a huge bump
up specifically in tech earnings as well
as the banking earnings. They see
capital markets wide open. So they feel
like you know what we're going to miss
out more on the upside than we are on
the down.
>> We hear it every single week then every
single week. Speak to someone in the
commodity space who gives you a reality
check about what's happening in physical
markets.
>> Well, it's even worse today than it was
say on [music] Friday. At one point you
have OFAC basically not reissuing this
license for countries especially in Asia
to buy Russian crude. That's one. two,
there's now another blockade on the
blockade. So any one or two or three
vessels that were getting out, even if
they're Iranian, maybe even going to a
place like India, that will no longer
happen now starting at 10:00 a.m.
[music] So today is much worse. And the
final ships that left their destination,
have gotten there, and there's not
another inflow coming in. China is
halfing the amount of crude they buy
from Saudi Arabia.
>> Brent and WTI [music] so far this
morning back into triple digits and
higher by more than 7%. And this event
is this morning, an inflationary shock
>> for the Fed. You can look through
[music] a particular month, particularly
driven by by gas prices. I think more
important for the Fed would be core PCE
that is running at 3% year-over-year. Um
it's a percentage point above their own
target. The starting point is just not
good when you're overlaying another
energy price shock on top of that. Our
baseline is that we will get a cut in
the back half of the year. Um but kind
of confidence in that has has waned.
[music]
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Surging inflation eroding bears. The Fed
will cut interest rates this year. Ed
Aoseni of Columbia Thread Needle
writing, "The data overall leaves the
Fed with a live option to execute an
insurance hike later this year." Ed
joins us now for more. Ed, good morning.
Dwayne
>> enjoyed the note, so I'll share a bit
more of it with our audience. We've had
some early color on the impact of the
Iran war on inflation. Today's CPI print
is immediately relegated to the EFL.
That's a different league in English
football. Anyway, the Premier League is
for data that can tell us whether some
of the excess inflation we had at the
end of last year is starting to broaden
out and become entrenched. What are you
seeing on that front?
>> I think the good news is so far both
inflation and inflation expectations
have been pretty well behaved. Consumers
have updated their short-term inflation
expectations. They're expecting this gas
uh spike to pass through into inflation
over the next year. But longer term,
things have been quite stable, and
that's exactly what the Fed would want
to see at this stage.
>> What do you think is going to anchor the
Fed, consumer expectations or
market-based inflation expectations?
Which is more important?
>> A little bit of both. The market-based
expectations are a live tracker. Um,
they're the most immediate feedback that
the Fed can get. The consumer
expectations carry a little bit more
weight because they're a little bit more
connected to the real economy. So, they
need some mix of both to validate just
staying on hold at this stage.
>> What components are you looking for for
that broadening out? because we're
seeing a number of different shocks
layered on top of each other. And you
could say any one of them are temporary
or going to pass. At the same time, it
starts to feel a little bit like what
are we doing if we're just excluding
absolutely everything that comes down
the pike.
>> I think the lesson of the COVID era
inflation shock is not to be too narrow
in in the inflation analysis. Look at
momentum in the overall basket. Look at
breadth of the overall basket. what
share of the basket is growing at 3,
four, 5%. Um, on a quarter- quarter
basis, for example, that's a much better
indicator than a narrow view of what's
going on to in in in energy or what's
going on in, you know, airline affairs
and so on. And again, [snorts] I think
the good news is at the start of the
year, the inflation basket, the
inflation process had narrowed a lot
really over the last two or three years.
>> You say an insurance hike could be on
the table. This is the bare case for all
the bulls on Wall Street. If you take a
look at their notes, if you look under
the hood, the one thing that could to
that could torpedo their optimism would
be something of a more hawkish take from
central banks, particularly at the
United States. Why do you think that
that's increasingly likely given the
rhetoric that we've heard from Fed Chair
Jay Powell?
>> I think from the Fed's perspective, you
want to keep that door open. It
demonstrates credibility to the market.
It anchors expectations longer further
out on the curve and it essentially
tells the market like look we have gone
through this process just two or three
years ago. We've reestablished our
credibility by bringing inflation down.
We're going to keep it in place by
keeping our policy options open. You
don't want to narrow those policy
options at the stage.
>> Well, J Pal's term ends in one month and
two days. Do we have insurance hikes
baked in for Kevin Worsh?
>> The answer is no. uh and uh and I'm not
sure if his term is going to end in a in
a month and a half but um look at at
this stage
>> technically
>> technically uh at this stage markets are
finding it really hard to price those
hikes in in the US that door is much
wider and open in the UK in Europe in
emerging markets in the US we've had a
debate between how many cuts and staying
on hold that debate could shift again if
the inflation process accelerates but if
you're sitting at the Fed you want to
make sure that that door is slightly
open.
>> I'm half joking, but I don't even know
if Walsh's term is going to start
anytime soon. We're meant to have a
hearing.
>> Yeah, it's been delayed.
>> Why is that?
>> Uh, Punch Bowl News has because of
paperwork, which I find interesting
because shouldn't he be doing his in
paperwork since Trump won when he wanted
the job?
>> For 10 years [laughter]
>> and you're telling me he doesn't have
the paperwork ready
>> according to Punch Bowl. Yeah,
>> that just sounds absolutely stunning,
doesn't it?
>> Especially given all the other potential
delays. I guess he thought that this
would never end. He never expected to be
at the top of the of the Fed.
>> Here we are. And how do things change if
when Kevin Walsh gets into the seat?
>> Um, I think things change on a couple of
fronts. One, in the background, there's
been a live conversation about the Fed's
balance sheet. I think that gets
reanimated in the course of his hearings
if we move forward with shrinking the
Fed's balance sheet. What does that look
like? What is the philosophy behind it?
Um, and what does that mean for the
future of uh Fed policym with that
balance sheet tool? The second of course
is the short-term issue of take the
productivity mix, the tariff shock, the
uh energy shock at the moment. How do
you make a case for cuts if you are uh
Kevin Walsh? I think it's an
extraordinarily difficult case.
>> Have you got an idea of how they'd
present that case after a series of
negative supply shocks across goods,
labor, and now energy? How you'd present
that case this summer? So one way to
frame it up is to say look the inflation
process again going into the shock was
really well behaved. Uh we brought down
wages. If our theory of the case when it
comes to inflation is that it's some
interplay of expectations, wages and
productivity. On all three of those
fronts, the news is quite good.
Expectations are well behaved. Wages
have come down. Productivity has gone
up. That's a great case for easing
policy on the margin. Now, that's
keeping a lot of other things constant.
Uh it's not, I think, a complete case,
but I think you have the makings of of a
case there.
>> Ed, good to see you. Enjoy the work as
always. Thank you, sir. Thank you,
Edusani there of Colombia Thread Needle
on some of the economic gymnastics that
might be taking place later this summer
when we finally get those hearings.
Yeah, if we get those economic
gymnastics, I expect the Treasury to
play a part in it because there will be
some sort of Treasury Fed accord to try
to keep the long end of the yield curve
lower. I mean, ultimately, how do you
get any of this without leading to
inflation expectations not becoming a
bit unanchored? And I keep going back to
what Cameron Dawson said, find someone
to believe in you the way the market
believes in the Fed's 2% target because
we have not been there for more than 5
years. Pretty impressive, isn't it? And
pretty much everyone still believes we
will get there one day.
>> I just can't believe his paperwork's not
ready. I just
>> Who's he going to blame? The dog ate my
paperwork.
>> He's been planning this for 10 years.
>> The baby [music]
>> and the paperwork's not ready.
>> And also, he was interviewed for the
Treasury Secretary. So, he should have
had, you know, he should have had the
paperwork done in December.
>> Okay.
>> Medical form,
>> right? [laughter] I I've got no idea.
I'd love some details.
>> Haven't got to
>> from the guys at Punch Bowl News. Just,
you know, what are they talking about?
What paperwork? Coming up, Jason Dra of
UBS, Alexander Aronov of JP Morgan,
Steven Rashutto of Missouo, Bob Elliot
of Unlimited [music] Funds. The third
hour of Bloombeck surveillance up next.
>> The markets and investors have been
conditioned to look through volatility.
>> Markets can remain more buoyant
>> on a fundamental basis. [music] We are
still in a very good place.
>> It's really not about hype anymore.
>> It's impossible to kind of figure out
like pinpoint where it's going to go.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your price action looks like this.
Following the biggest weekly gain of the
year so far, the S&P [music] 500. Here's
the pullback. We're down by 3/4 of 1% on
the S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're down by
8/10en [music] of 1%. And following the
worst week for crude for the year so
far, here's the bounce. WCI and break
crude high by more than 7% so far
[music] this morning anchoring the
outlook for many an equity bull is the
outlook for earnings and the start of
earnings season on Wall Street not
fantastic [music] Goldman Sachs
stumbling out of the gate that stock is
down by close to 4%.
>> Yeah and the real key mis here was in
the fick trading and [music] sales unit.
You saw that come in lighter than
expected by almost 800 bill by by a
significant margin which led people to
be concerned about what they might be
missing. That said, on a broader level,
the earnings beat expectations pretty
much across [music] the board with a
record quarter when it came to equity
trading and sales. So, at a certain
point, does this indicate [music] the
bar is incredibly high given that this
is the lynch pin? The earnings is what
is keeping this market from falling much
more if earnings do not beat
expectations to the degree that people
expect? How much does that remove one of
the pillars that's been upholding this
market?
>> JP Morgan, tomorrow, the day after that,
we'll [music] hear from Bank of America
and from Morgan Stanley as well. How
much guidance can they provide in a
moment like this one? How much guidance
do you have? Visibility, [music]
never mind in the next 9 months. How
about the next 2 hours? 1 hour and 58
minutes. A blockade of the strider
former begins [music] at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern time.
>> That's according to the president. It's
only according to sentcom. I got a lot
of messages over the weekend saying,
"How serious [music] is the president
about this blockade? Is just escalate to
deescalate in terms of rhetoric?" And he
doesn't follow through and he, you
[music] know, does the taco thing before
the markets open. But then Sentcom put
out a statement explaining the blockade.
[music] So, I do truly believe that
there will be a blockade at 10 a.m. But
I don't know what we look like this
evening, especially given the fact that
the Iranians say that they cannot access
other ports [music]
and they're going to go after Gulf ports
in the region. So, we could see a
serious escalation in the next 24, 48
hours.
>> Is this the escalation we need to see to
[music] eventually deescalate further
down the road?
>> Most people seem to think that
deescalation is a logical consequence,
whether it's because of the blockade or
whether it's because of talks or
whatever [music] it is. Ultimately,
increasingly, it feels like people are
sort of tuning it out. They're listening
to it in the background but saying okay
what's [music] it going to mean in my
next Sunday night evening but people
when they take a look at the longer term
they say whatever happens prices will
come down and ultimately we will resolve
this issue by June by July by August
that faith is not held by commodity
strategists at the same time I want to
understand what the scenario analyses
are from companies from banks from
advisers in terms of how bad things
could get [music] versus how good things
could get and then figure out what the
sort of intermediate could look like
>> you sound like someone whose Monday
morning started Sunday evening for the
last 6 weeks.
>> Oh, you don't say. How about try a
couple years? I mean, it's sort of a
certain point people get tired and they
get whipped around and they see other
people making money with information
that [music] they seem to have been
getting from other people and there's a
sense of like, well, you know, why
should I try to get ahead of that?
>> What's interesting though, it's not just
commodity [music] analysts and experts
that are saying prices are going to
rise. The president did have this moment
in uh over the weekend in an interview
saying that maybe gasoline prices will
be a bit more elevated before the
midterm [music] elections. So he is
acknowledging that gas prices might be a
little bit higher for a little bit
longer.
>> Equity futures [music] this morning
slightly lower off the back of this move
in crude higher by more than 7%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Jason
Drao of UBS. With markets retreating as
earning season kicks off, Steve Rashuto
of Missouo as hopes of a Fed rate cut
this year are fading and Bob Elliot of
unlimited funds with crude surging back
above $100 a barrel. We begin this app
with stocks adding to losses as Goldman
Sachs fails to lift markets. Jason Drao
of UBS Global Wealth Management writing,
"The start of first quarter earning
season should support our forecast for
11% EPS growth in the S&P 500 this year
with a price target of 7500 in
December." Jason joins us now for more.
Jason, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> How shaky is that outlook for earnings
now?
>> Well, the guidance going into Q1 earning
season has been good and we've actually
seen, you know, kind of in terms of
revisions upwards or downwards has
actually been relatively optimistic
versus other quarters. We've seen some
good results from tech companies, some
semic semiconductor companies. So the
setup going in is good. I mean you we
talked about you know the high bar
perhaps for the market performance. The
bar is high but in terms of actually
achieving that 11% nothing so far we've
seen going into the season will suggest
that's at real sort of jeopardy. Again
we're making the caveat of terms of the
whole Middle East situation but you know
abstracting that the earning story still
looks very much on track.
>> This is anchoring pretty much everyone
on Wall Street so far this morning. And
I say pretty much loosely, forgive me,
but the likes of Morgan Stanley, JP
Morgan, HSBC, Black Rockck, all saying
something similar. It's an opportunity
to buy this from Morgan Stanley.
Countries will find ways to solve a
problem that is intolerable for the
global economy much like they did in
2022. Is this so bad it's got to get
better and then you should look through
it. Is it that simple? Because it feels
much more complicated. Well, in terms of
like kind of solving the problems, you
know, I think some lesson we learned
from like the the pandemic era is that
the supply chains, you know, creates,
you know, problems, but they also create
opportunities like companies, the
ability of the econ the economy,
especially the US economy to kind of
solve the problems, have the price
system sort of equilibriate. Again, you
know, I think it does it very well. And
so the lesson from my takeaway from that
experience is that like don't
underestimate the economy's resiliency.
You know, the economic conditions today
aren't as strong. The fin like, you
know, the the health of the consumer is
not kind of strong. The fiscal support
it's not there. So a lot of reasons to
obviously be more concerned. At the same
time, you know, I don't want to sort of,
you know, doubt the ability of the US
economy to be somewhat resilient, you
know, through this whole situation.
Resilient enough that, you know, our
forecast, I think we still feel pretty
comfortable about ultimately by the end
of the year equities being up, you know,
about 10%.
>> One of the reasons that, uh, people seem
somewhat optimistic. When I speak to a
number of investors, they say ultimately
all of these supply shocks will create
the greater need to invest in artificial
intelligence. The greater need to get
bigger to enga engage in deals to uh
create a critical mass in economies of
scale. How much do you see the
uncertainty and the ongoing supply
shocks as only accelerating some of the
capex that we've seen that have really
driven some of the gains that we see not
only in equities but more broadly in the
overall economy? Well, the capbacks for
AI that's we're seeing strong numbers
there. If you abstract from that, if you
look at residential,
non-residentidential, other investment,
it's actually, you know, relatively
weak. So, we're not seeing companies
saying we need to invest more
necessarily in AI specifically. So, from
a near-term growth perspective, that's
sort of not driving it in terms
ultimately of creating supply chain
resiliency. I mean, this is now a story
almost kind of going back a decade with,
you know, first with tariffs, with the
pandemic. So, I think you're going to
see companies move in that direction,
but it's hard to invest when there's a
lot of uncertainty at this point in
time. So I wouldn't view that as a key
driver for the next say quarter or two
to really lift US growth.
>> One of the difficulties as people look
to a potential upside significant upside
7500 other people completely agree with
you is that there isn't an obvious
hedge. We used to talk about bonds. We
used to talk about gold. Nothing's
really performed consistently. I mean
how do you think about a possible hedge
to optimism that seems to be pervasive
right now?
>> Well it ultimately depends like what are
you trying to hedge against? You know if
it's ultimately oil prices going higher
commodity prices that's an inflation
shock. It's really difficult to hedge
that. So you can look at things like oil
or having exposure to commodities that
worked you know earlier this year like
in in March we go back to 22 that would
have worked in that time period. Um you
can also need to sort of derisk and have
sort of less exposure overall. You can
have less risk exposure in interest
rates markets. You know we're saying
stay in the front of the curve. We've
like you know no more than about the
5year point. You don't want that
interest exposure. So you can make
changes at the margin other but
ultimately inflation shock is really
really hard to hedge. I mean other than
you sort of derisking significantly.
>> Are there any parts of the market that
are prepared for serious escalation?
Uh I mean I think it depends if you
think of serious escalation I think the
front end of the curve pricing in like
now this go a couple weeks ago actually
hikes seemed optimistic to me in terms
of the optimistic in the sense of the
market sort of pricing the Fed to hike
because ultimately if you really get
significant escalation I think the
markets transition from we treat this as
an inflation shock and therefore the Fed
has to hike to we treat this as a growth
>> you know what is an escalation from from
my standpoint the status quo is bad
enough really need an escalation from
here. Physical markets really tight.
Shortages are beginning to emerge across
Asia. Europe is bracing for them to
confront the same thing in the next
month or so. I'm not sure. Do we need an
escalation? What kind of escalation do
we need? Just the status quo to persist
where things are right now for that to
persist week on week on week on week on
week. You're going to see more damage to
the global economy every single week.
>> That's logical. Yes, that's correct.
Although Max Kentner over at HSBC is
saying that actually it's the pace of
bad news getting worse. And so if it's
not getting worse as quickly as it was
before, that's enough to keep people
optimistic in the markets. I mean, just
giving you a sense of what the register
is right now on Wall Street.
>> Less bad
>> less bad
>> is good enough.
>> Good enough.
>> The line from Max Ker of HSBC. Your
conclusion too.
>> Well, in terms of escalation, really the
key is do we get, you know, oil flowing
through the straight of Homus? So status
quo means whether military escalation or
not if you don't get that improvement
that's a problem because I think what
the markets are assuming what we're
assuming is ultimately as we go forward
in the next month or two you get
improvements. If that doesn't happen,
yes, prices go higher. Economic growth
has to be sort of markdown. The markets
are not pricing for that.
>> But then then they're not pricing in
what's going to happen in less than two
hours today. There is an escalation.
There's a blockade of the blockade. So
even the little bit of oil that was
getting out will be stopped.
>> Well, if you're talking about an oil
tank or two versus a 30 that would
normally go through, I'm not sure that
marginally makes a change. Like this is
a question you have to believe. Will the
administration do a blockade? There's
also reports over the weekend that
they're going to prepare to try and do
sort of like sweeping of mines to you
know could there be also that's good
news you know a week or so from now that
all right we'll do this but we're trying
to actually improve the flow of oil I
mean so that's not something the market
is talking about but like what is the
ultimate plan for the administration
ultimately you I don't think you want to
have oil not flowing through what the
calls for is we want oil to flow through
and so you talk about a blockade but
ultimately if you're working to prepare
to increase military security so oil can
flow through that to me is a positive
for the markets which is not being
discussed this morning from what I can
see
>> Jason it's good to see you Good. Thank
you. So, thanks for dropping by. Lots to
think about. Jason Draer there of UBS
Global Wealth Management. Jason's right.
There's always some tension with this.
Financial markets will look at better
versus worse. And for the rest of us,
many other people will focus on good
versus bad. And things are
overwhelmingly bad right now in the
Middle East, particularly for the people
who live there. As for the better versus
worse, can you make the argument this
morning that things are getting better?
I think that's hard. Can you make the
argument that things are getting close
to getting better? maybe you've got some
wiggle room on that front over the last
week
>> or that the pace of news is less bad and
that that's enough to really get people
uh excited that potentially there could
be a resolution and it goes to kind of
Mike Wilson's point. If you have a
rational look at the idea that economic
destruction for everybody is probably
not in anyone's interest that things
will work out.
>> We're not dealing with a rational actor
in the Middle East.
>> This is something that people are
looking at and they say that the talks
are evidence of some rationality
prevailing. Look, either way, people are
saying if I miss out, that's a problem.
I think the bigger point here is if you
have an inflationary shock, there's no
hedge against it. Stocks might end up
being the best hedge for it because
ultimately it might not be the bond
market, especially if there's a fiscal
offset. Uh so people are hamstrung right
now through a lot of different potential
competing factors.
>> I also think the market is just happy
that they met. These are two there's no
trust in this relationship, but there
hasn't been trust in this relationship
for decades. And the fact that they met
I think a lot of people view as a very
good sign. Even though at home those
individuals that went over to Islamabad
and met with the United States, members
of the IRGC are saying, "How dare you
meet with the United States when they
just killed Hamini, the Ayatollah, and
other prominent leaders in their
country."
>> And the ceasefire, albeit fragile, the
ceasefire is just about holding. Up next
on the program, we'll get you some
morning calls. Plus, we'll catch up with
Oxana Aronov of JP Morgan Asset
Management as stress continues to
[music] build in private credit. That
conversation just around the corner from
New York City this morning. Equity
futures recovering [music] a touch.
We're down by6%. From New York, this is
Bloomberg.
I think we live in a world of higher,
more volatile inflation. If the market
believes that oil prices will be back
down to $70 a barrel by December, then
firms are going to see this as
temporary. There are cracks in this
economy. There are some other kinds of
tailwinds that are holding things up.
That was Andrew Honhorse of City
weighing in on the economic situation
focused on [music] the demand side of
the equation following a series of
supply side shocks. Three of them over
the last year on trade, on labor, and
now on energy. Equity futures this
morning pulling back by just 0.6% on the
S&P 500 in the face of this move in
crude. A rally of more than 7% on WTI
and Brent. WTI this morning 104. Brent
crude Rammo at 102 [music] so far this
morning.
>> Yeah. So, not necessarily at the
absolute highs since the conflict began
in the Middle East, but still rising
significantly. And right now, it's sort
of this uncomfortable numbness that
we're seeing in markets. Or maybe people
are getting increasingly comfortable
that they can just look past this and
say [music] there will be brighter
moments.
>> Stocks unchanged on the year
>> basically, right? I think we're down by
410 of 1% something like that on the S&P
500 [music] in the face of a major shock
in the Middle East.
>> Some people could call this complacency.
Other people would call this resilience.
When you take a look at [music] the
composition of stocks that have changed
significantly, you've seen a lot of
volatility under the surface. The whole
paddling duck [music] that Amy W
Silverman talks about. Ultimately
though, it does lie with the earnings.
And do you see the earnings come in
[music] at the level that people
expected? Right now, Goldman Sachs in
pre-market trading down significantly at
1 point more than 4% [music] in
commentary from the bank saying that the
backlog of investment banking has
decreased slightly. So, a question of
how much this really disrupts some of
the pillars of this economic uh
backdrop.
>> Let's play. If you told me, if you told
me at the start of the year all this
stuff would happen. Huff air blast was
on with us earlier. Fantastic on the
commodity market based out of London. He
said, "If [music] you told me all these
things would take place, I would have
thought even in the physical market
where crude has been trading in [music]
the 140s that you'd expect and in some
places much higher than that, you'd
expect crude to be trading north of 200
maybe." My guess based on what's
happened over the last 6 weeks.
>> I agree. It actually is shocking that
Brent crude is just [music] actually at
102 when it comes to Yeah, I know that's
the paper market, but still [music] it
is shocking cuz this administration has
been jawboating. There's been verbal
inter intervention. I do think the
market does think that at some [music]
point if it gets too painful for Trump
the idea of a Trump put, he will make
sure that he could somehow get out of
this. The thing is [music] this isn't
like liberation day. There are multiple
parties involved and it's not just the
Iranians, the United States, it's Gulf
partners and of course it's Israel.
[music] The offsets have been pretty
incredible as well. Unlocked a lot of
inventories all around the world. The
East West pipeline impressive from the
Saudis. [music]
7 million barrels. Is that the number?
>> And they're at capacity.
>> 7 million barrels a day through that
East West pipeline has been pretty
impressive, too. [music]
>> Yeah. I think that if we want to get a
forecast, I would like to suggest some
decorating in the surveillance studio. I
think we need to get a big dart board.
We need to have a number of different
>> I thought you were going to park barrels
of crude or something like
>> Well, actually, that's at home. It's
good exercise for the kids. But
ultimately, I mean, I think that we
should just start throwing darts and
it's really the question of what gets on
the dart board that really [music] is
>> blindfolds and darts. Brammo,
>> I think it might be actually more
effective. I think that's the way to go.
>> Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, Steve for lowering its price target
on Meta, hedging for any potential
impact from the war in Iran. Your second
call from Roth Capital raising its
target on Core Wee, calling it a pure
play AI cloud platform. And finally,
Goldman double down granting Best Buy to
sell, warning higher memory costs
[music] could impact computer sales.
That stock is down and down hard. so far
this morning. Let's turn to private
credit. The Federal Reserve asking major
US banks about their exposure to the
industry. The request following a recent
surge in redemptions. Oxana Aronov of JP
Morgan [music] Asset Management writing
private credit headlines have been able
to hide behind war headlines. But this
remains the epicenter of what we expect
to be the next significant dislocation
that will impact public markets. Oxana
joins us now for more. Oxana, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Set the stage for us. How the dominoes
falling and how will they fall in your
mind? The first of all, let's start with
the fact that this is the longest credit
cycle we've had. You know, I'm going to
say in memory because collectively here,
no one has [laughter] been through a
longer run. Um, it has lasted, you could
argue, really since the end of the great
financial crisis. We would have had one
in 2020, but of course the Fed came in
and kind of blunted that. And so, there
are a number of operators out there that
probably should have gone under even
back in 2020 that are still around. And
today we have this entire ecosystem of
private credit that has made it
possible, you know, has financed um
companies that probably would have
struggled otherwise. We see that through
the bad pick activity. We see it through
the rising defaults in the private
credit sector which hit a record last
year. This year the expectation was that
they were going to ease because of lower
rates and that is not materializing and
so that's going to make that financing
route more difficult. But at the end of
the day on the public side what we're
also seeing are downgrades outpacing
upgrades. We are seeing as a result of
that the triple C part of the market
expanding both sides of you know late
cycle late credit cycle kind of dynamics
and the way this plays out is the way it
always plays out. People want liquidity
and when they, you know, obviously the
theoretical concerns around valuations
and liquidity in the private credit
market are becoming real concerns. Um,
and remains to be seen whether they're
justified or not, but people do want to
get their money back. They cannot,
right? The the cues for redemptions have
been met at best at a 50% level, in some
cases only at a 10% level, meaning of
the total redemptions um that are in the
queue of that particular operator. And
when people can't get their money out of
illquid investments, they go where they
can, which are the liquid public
markets. And you start to see kind of
selling begets selling um as concerns
mount. And you have a dislocation which
can be a very dramatic recession,
pricing type dislocation even without a
recession. Um and that I think is
probably the playbook.
>> Let's build on this just a little bit
more. Where have we been building
leverage? Because we've heard so much
over the last 5 years that consumer
balance sheets, household balance sheets
are strong. We've heard so many times
that corporate balance sheets are
strong. Coming out of the pandemic,
there was a massive transfer from the
sovereign to those balance sheets and
that's why they're resilient. Where's
the leverage been building? Where's the
weakness?
>> So certainly some of these lower credit
rated companies absolutely have more
leverage and remains to be seen, right?
There's not a a lot of transparency
there. So you know in the p private
credit portfolios particularly. So it
remains to be seen. they are absolutely
more levered and this is how um
investors and managers and operators and
companies get into trouble time and time
again certainly through leverage and
liquidity concerns. Um, there is also,
you know, the question I frequently get,
which I think is related to what you're
asking, is how does this become
systemic? Because that's really what
we're concerned about. And the reality
is that we don't know that a risk is
systemic until it becomes that because
if we did, we would put guard rails
around it, right? That's kind of the
nature of what allows it to become
systemic. And one avenue possibly for it
becoming a systemic risk. You know, not
a huge base case for us, but certainly a
possibility are the insurers because the
insurers have taken on a significant
amount of private credit exposure. It is
something like 18% of their overall bond
exposure today. Um they are also, you
know, some of them are owned by um
alternative asset uh managers. And by
the way, you know, some unintended
consequences of that to the extent that
these insurers provide guarantees in the
mun bond market. We're seeing energy
prepaid munis being impacted by that
because the third party in that
transaction sometimes is that insurance
company. So there are many kind of um
avenues for um transitioning that risk
from one AP epicenter of the market to a
different part of the market and
insurance could be that because they're
in a little bit of uncharted territory
with more ill liquidity and more high
yield exposure which has been the other
headline over a number of years right as
they operate in an ultra low environment
and in effect to kind of match their
reliabilities they've been taking on
higher yield exposure. Is this a private
credit issue or is this an AI disruption
issue that is being masked as private
credit?
>> You bring up a really important point
because by some estimates as much as 40%
of the private credit ecosystem is
linked to software, AI, technology and
of course to the extent that um AI is
coming for the lunch of some of these
companies. Their business models are not
just we're not just talking about
cyclical turnover. We're talking about
you know a business model that becomes
obsolete structurally. That's one risk.
And then of course there are questions
around AI specifically how much of that
is really going to pan out in terms of
you know the investment resulting in the
sorts of things that are being priced
in. So absolutely those things are
interconnected.
>> The reason why I ask and and this is
sort of the systemic node that some
people who I'm speaking with are talking
about right now. The reason why markets
are feeling good is because capital
markets are wide open. People want to
invest. They want to finance the AI
revolution. What could cause people to
pull back because that would be the
ultimate lever that would create a real
problem. Do you see any sign of that
whatsoever?
>> There could be certainly a massive miss
on the part of one of the hyperscalers.
I think the thing to watch and the
reason this tremendous expansion in the
hyperscalers and their capex expenditure
hasn't really been an issue is because
it's been cash financed pretty much
entirely. We're just now starting to see
them resort and lean into the credit
markets for financing and issue um bonds
uh and debt to to finance it, but it's
still such a tiny portion of their
capital structure overall. And where
it's growing, like Oracle, for example,
we're seeing the effects of that in
their CDS, etc. And so, um I think
that's really the thing to watch is how
much debt and at what pace will they
start accumulating it um to kind of say,
okay, maybe there's a red flag here,
maybe not. two weeks away. Microsoft
April 29th, I think Meta's April 30th,
and we'll look out for Alphabet as well,
of course. Are we going to see that
discipline kick in? Are they going to
have to pull back on on capex? They've
said a million times in several
different ways that the biggest risk for
them is underinvesting and not
overinvesting. But it was easier to say
that when the equity market was ripping
and stocks were at all-time highs, and
they were a big part of that story,
particularly the likes of Microsoft. I
wonder how hard it is to make that
statement now this morning. And I think
that the leadup to it is going to be all
the companies reporting earnings ahead
of it. How do they express the
efficiencies? How much are they getting
disrupted? And if they're not getting
disrupted, then how does big tech
justify all the investment that's only
accelerating year after year in some of
this technology?
>> NASDAQ futures down by 610 of 1% this
morning. Oxy, good to see you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for being here. Jim Z of
Hollow might say take a walk or
something like that. Did you hear him
say that? You say take a walk. Get some
fresh air for it. I'll do plates.
>> Bring it down just a touch. We start the
show later. We can all go and work out.
We'll do pilateses and come in much more
relaxed.
>> I think it's great outside [laughter]
allows for it.
>> There we go.
>> Window.
>> Alex, thank you. Ox Aronov there of JP
Morgan. Coming up on the program, Steve
Rashuta of Missouo as hopes of a Fed
rate cut this year are fading. Plus,
we'll catch up with Christina Kino.
She's got your morning movers. Shares of
Goldman Sachs falling as earnings failed
to impress. That [music] name is down by
more than 4% this morning. That kicks
off earning season on Wall Street
tomorrow. We'll hear from JP Morgan and
others from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg [music]
TV.
Snapping a [music] 7-day winning streak
on Friday, but still posting the biggest
weekly gain of the year so far on the
S&P 500. [music] Moves of 3.5 to 4%
across the S&P, the NASDAQ, and the
Russell just last week. This morning a
slight pullback. We're down by 610 of 1%
on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're [music]
down by 6%. Also, if you check out the
commodity market, this is the gap
higher. We experienced overnight and
into this morning as the blockade of the
straight formers begins. The US pushing
this blockade in 90 [music]
minutes time. Brent crude up by 7% 102.
WCI up by 8% 104. And in the bond
market, things are pretty quiet. Stable
yield tire by two or three basis points.
This is not a big move. We're up by
three basis points at the front end of
the curve to 382. [music]
>> I do think that the direction is
interesting and what you're seeing
increasingly is bonds selling off in
tandem with stocks because [music] it is
an inflationary move. And this really is
maybe one reason why people see perhaps
more upside in stocks than bonds.
[music] Where is your hedge at this
moment if the risk truly is inflation as
Jason Drejo is talking about? And
ultimately, how much is that anxiety
hanging over some of the calls that we
hear on [music] Wall Street? That
positive correlation between stocks and
bonds spooks people and you're seeing it
repeatedly and it reminds them of 2022
and 22 was not a good [music] year for
stocks
>> and we're seeing again inflation
increase at the fastest pace going back
since guess when 2022 that was the CPI
that we got on Friday and that was the
increase that we saw when we take a look
at people's expectations for inflation
in the near term it's creeping higher
longer term still well anchored at what
point does that change and how much does
that increase [music]
the spookiness of this correlation
>> the good news the Fed probably won't be
hiking 500 basis points. I [music] mean,
that's the good news. I say probably
because you never know what's going to
happen in the future, but that's the
bank's case
>> and it's the pace of news that we're
getting. And less bad is that the Fed is
not going to hike by 500 basis points.
>> It's good news from Max Ker of HSBC.
[music] The opening bell about 60
minutes away. Let's get you some single
names and morning movers. Christina Kino
has more. Hey Christine.
>> Hey John. All right, let's take a look
at Goldman shares this morning as that
seems to be on the back foot. Goldman of
course beating its own revenue trading
revenue for equities [music] coming in
at $5.33
billion for the first quarter. But of
course investors focusing on a
disappointment from the [music] fixed
income revenue side of things. That came
at just over $4 billion. Definitely
what's dragging on the shares this
morning. CEO David Solomon though
calling the bank's performance quote
very strong but also warning of
increased market volatility. Goldman of
course kicks off Wall Street earnings
this week. We have JP [music] Morgan up
next due on Tuesday. Let's also take a
look at some airline stocks definitely
in focus today as oil climbs back above
$100 per barrel. You're already seeing
the impact there right across the screen
for the major US carriers. [music]
Of course, some airlines potentially
starting to feel the bite now. American
Airlines raising its check bag fees
again [music] and so it's charging now
$50 for the first bag, $60 for the
second, $200 for the third. So, make
sure you pack [music] light. Now, let's
round us off taking a look at energy
stocks this morning as well. Still very
[music] much in the green as we await
the beginning of the US blockade in the
straight of Hormuz starting at 10:00
a.m. Eastern time [music] today. Again,
higher oil prices just one part of the
equation here. There's also the
potential disruption to [music] these
companies operations in the Gulf. Exon
Mobile already warning of a 6% loss to
its global production [music] in the
first quarter given those disruptions.
We'll get more details on that when it
reports earnings on the 1 [music] of
May. John
>> Christine, thank you. Great work this
morning. Appreciate it. Find more from
Christina Aino on the Mive blog on the
Bloomberg terminal. Inevitable after a
move like that in the commodity market
that we'd see energy names up and travel
names down. Charging for baggage. Do you
want to do it?
>> Yes, I think so.
>> It's miserable boarding the plane
because everyone is struggling to find
overhead space to put their bags.
[music] And what's going to happen now?
>> And then what do they do at the gate?
They want to check in your bag for free.
Like I mean, come on.
>> Everyone's going to do that. And then of
course the enforcement of gateway is
going to [music] be a really key issue
because everyone's going to try to sneak
on to try to get their bag on first.
>> Well, the amount that American Airlines
wants to charge, [music] you're better
off just buying some new items when you
land. I'd rather buy a new outfit
instead of packing [music] a second or
third suitcase.
>> You should charge for the basic fee.
Start with the basic fee and then charge
a supplementary [music] fee if you want
to bring in hand luggage. And you'll see
what will happen. People want to take
the hand luggage because of the
convenience factor. No one actually
wants to check in the bag. I'm not sure
the disconnect here between the airlines
and the people that travel on the
airlines.
>> What it indicates to me is they're
looking at every lever to potentially uh
raise cash. So, at what [music] point do
you start saying, "Well, if you want the
nicely scented dates, then
[clears throat] you can uh pay an extra
$20 and it will smell like [music]
roses."
>> If you could guarantee me overhead space
to put my bag, how much would I pay for
that convenience?
>> Please do go on. How much would you be
willing to pay?
>> Because I would be so annoyed if [music]
you took that away from me and I had to
wait for the bag at the other end.
>> Okay. So, how much would you be willing
to pay? $200.
>> I think you could get business [music]
travelers to spend serious money.
>> All right.
But that's why they sit in business here
first if you're an executive.
>> That's why they sit in business cuz you
sit in business, you are guaranteed the
overhead bin
>> and they've already [music] paid the
money. Yes.
>> Which tells you that
>> yeah,
>> they're willing to spend. Anyway, I I've
done this round before. I've done this
round before.
>> American Airlines needs to sort it out.
You know, [laughter]
>> that's a separate conversation. Let's
turn to the economy. Inflation data and
[music] Fed speak on deck this week as
hopes of a rate cut this year continue
to fade. Blimos Mike McKe is looking
ahead to all of that. He joins us now.
Good morning, Mike.
>> Morning, John. Listening to you guys, I
think we need a new CPI category for
airline baggage fees, and we'll keep
track on how much they go up and how
annoying it is. In the meantime, I'm
sure you are, as uh I am, tired of
saying we don't know what's going to
happen next. The question with the
economy uh numbers coming out this week
is what's going to matter at this point
because we sort of know what they're
going to tell us and we also sort of
know the Fed's not going to do much. Uh
tomorrow we get PPI and we kind of know
where that's going to go. We know it's
going to go up. It's just a question of
how much. Wednesday, import prices will
be interesting because we haven't talked
about tariffs very much in a long time
and it's always uh kind of a question of
if you look at uh ex petroleum uh what
is the impact on the exporters? Are they
eating any of the tariffs? So far they
have not been uh other than that not a
whole lot that's going to matter to the
Fed. But before the weekends and the
blackout begins then uh the Fed is going
to be on the board. lot of them talking
this week my uh today Tuesday uh Goulsby
Pollson Collins and Barkin we haven't
really heard a lot from Pollson Collins
uh lately so that'll be interesting
Mickey Bowman generally talking about
regulation and Michael Bar might be as
well on Wednesday since he used to do
that but the one I'd point to is Friday
Chris Waller talking about the economic
outlook and of course he's one of the
swing votes in terms of whether you cut
or whether you hold I don't think Chris
is going to come out and say we are
going to be ready to raise rates But uh
I wanted to leave you with since I don't
have the airline baggage one the
[laughter]
the uh chart to watch perhaps in terms
of future inflation and it's not
gasoline. We all know gas prices are
going up and that's a pain but diesel
prices. This is the part that's going to
get into the uh core of CPI because it's
going to get into shipping prices. It's
going to get into trucking prices,
railroad prices. Uh and that's going to
raise prices for everybody for package
delivery among other things. So, that's
one to keep an eye on as we go forward.
Down a little bit last week, but uh
probably going to rise again this week
significantly.
>> Mike, thank you. Thanks for indulging
us. Appreciate it. There's two things I
hate about flag and neither of them are
flag. It's security one and boarding
two. And if they could experience one
and two, it would vastly improve the
whole experience. And why they're doing
nothing about either confuses me. Well,
the one thing that they're doing is
increasingly saying if you pay this much
more, we can help you on both of these
fronts and that is the premium offering
and that is increasing the amount of
their revenues and their uh and their
profits. And how much do you see this in
an increasing level as you see that K
get wider and wider?
>> Yeah. But how many people line up when
they say group A or one? Everyone.
Everyone. And then sometimes they
>> everyone has status now. Yes. You see
the lounge.
>> Everyone has status. The other thing
that really bothers me with airlines,
when you wear a very tiny purse to keep
just your cell phone and your passport
in, they tell you to put it in your
bigger duffel bag. They obviously know
it fits. Why are you arguing with me to
put it in this bag?
>> These are first world problems. So,
let's talk about real issues. Steve
Rashuta of Missou writes the following.
A robust macro environment suggests the
Fed will not be in a position to cut
rates this year. Therefore, long-term
rates are likely to steepen the curve
over the balance of the year. Steve
joins us now for more. Steve, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. You are the guy we call to
ask the following question. What is
everyone getting wrong? What is everyone
getting wrong?
>> I think what everyone's getting wrong is
the fact that this inflation is probably
going to be stickier. Um I think it's
been an ongoing and building problem uh
in the system and that's why I think the
curve has the potential to steepen. The
market's already basically taken out Fed
rate cuts. I mean, there's a little
probability of it in there. I don't
think the market's really going to put
in rate hikes. So the curve from here is
probably going to move more dramatically
from the long end of the curve than from
the front end of the curve. And I think
the steepener is really the big story.
And if you're looking to get some
evidence as to where you could have an
inflation problem, look in the import
price numbers this week. In particular,
the non-petroleum import prices. Tariffs
are not included in import prices.
However, last month through was the
first month we saw a decided uptick in
non-petroleum import prices. I think it
went up by 1.2%. And I think there's a
risk we get another upward adjustment
here. So where we've been looking at the
environment and saying, "Well, the
economy is going to be softer. This will
lead to lower inflation." I think the
reality is the economy is proving it's
not softer, demand is still there. And
you're going to start seeing that
reflected in import prices.
>> I'm so pleased you've brought this up
because that's the biggest contradiction
of the year so far for me. The consensus
view at the start of the year was we get
this cyclical rebound fueled by tax
refunds and a bunch of other tailwinds.
then the consensus view is totally
shifted and the idea is now that you
won't get any second order effects on
inflation because the economy is not
strong enough to generate them. I'm
struggling to put those two things
together and we've had that debate
around this table several times. What do
you think it's actually going to look
like through the summer?
>> Well, I think what you're going to see
is you're going to see 3% growth in the
first quarter. You're probably going to
see 2 and a half% growth in the second
quarter and probably something close to
2 and a half% growth in the third
quarter as well. So you're looking at an
economy that should be running around
2%. And you're running at at least a
half a percent to a full percentage
point higher than that. So for the full
year, you're probably going to be up
about 2.6 2.7% relative to a 2% trend.
That gives you an idea of where the
demand is. It's still there in the
economy. And you look at refund check
issuance. I mean, it it's it's strong.
We're up about $28 billion over the same
week last year and we're still at the
point where we're starting to accelerate
those refund check distributions and
that money is going to get spent and
that's what's adding to the demand side
of the equation. Now some people can say
it's just going to wind up in the
inflation components. That's fine, but
that's why we're telling you the curve
is going to steepen from the long end.
>> How much are people misunderstanding the
average as being sort of the status quo
versus a bigger divide? It can be true.
Two things can be true at once. A great
great percent of the population can feel
pretty terrible about the situation.
Both the labor market as well as
inflation and just what it's doing to
their paychecks. And there still could
be a very big cohort of people that can
still spend money to be able to get on
the plane first and put their bags on so
they don't have to worry about anything
else. But I mean, this is ultimately
what we're talking about. And that's the
reason why Delta and American and United
have good outlooks for the year even
though people are really frustrated
about not getting on and getting their
bag on the thing. I mean, this is
essentially what we're looking at. Well,
go beyond the airline industry, you
know, at bottomup analyst expectations
for 2027 are for north of 19% growth in
earnings. We're we're at basically 15 to
16% for this year. So, they're looking
at it and saying even as they've gone
through this entire period of rising oil
prices, they've been raising their 27
earnings expectations. Now, again, a
little bit of inflation adds a lot more
to the bottom line in earnings than
people think. And that's a little bit of
what's happening here. And that's how it
gets embedded in the system. And that's
why you have to be careful. And that's
again why these inflation numbers are
indices. They're indices of lots of
different components because we see them
moving in different directions. And
you're right, different people will
spend on different products based on
their income level. And that will drive
the index and that's why we look at the
overall index. Could you see a credit
cycle transpire even with otherwise
pretty uh positive earnings and positive
overall averages in the equity space
given the fact that you have a number of
sectors where the consumer is more
pressured where potentially rates
remaining higher is going to challenge
them and you have disruption.
>> Well, I I think people are overplaying
the K-shaped economy because you're not
seeing it in demand. Um so I think that
that's a big part of the problem.
Everyone wants to look for the recession
call. Okay, that's what every because
everyone wants to make the lower
interest rate call because that makes
everyone trades profitable on the
street. The reality is this is not a
lower interest rate call and therefore
you can magnify things like private
credit to make them look like they can
become a systemic issue. But in reality,
if you just look at private credit,
that's fine. But the reality is the
financial markets are much bigger. So
we're looking at an environment where IG
issuance is expected to be up anywhere
from 37 to 45 billion dollars this
quarter, this month, this week I should
say. That's a very very strong
performance for issuance. Nothing really
sick on the calendar for today, but it
looks like there's going to be some good
good calendar issues. There's still a
demand to buy yield in this environment.
In addition to that, people are ignoring
the fact that regional banks now are
very very healthy and looking to put
themselves back into the loan market. So
private credit grew so much because
regional banks shrunk. Now you're in an
environment where private credit's
shrinking and everyone's forgetting that
regional banks are ready and primed to
go out and make loans to a lot of these
people and put them in perhaps a better
financial position than they would have
been before. It's a crisis every spring
at the moment, isn't it, Steve?
>> It's a continuous crisis. We've gone
through six or seven of these since SVB
and you know we keep on having these
recession calls that pan out to be
nothing. Private credit is just the
latest. Steve, it's good to see you.
Thanks for being here.
>> Pleasure.
>> Steve Rashudto of Missouo, the guy would
be cool to ask what is everyone getting
wrong.
>> I love this. Or tell me how you really
feel. I think that we should just have a
segment. Tell me how you really feel
with Steve Rashido.
>> We'll do a round table with Alexander
next time.
>> I think that would be good. Keep them
together.
>> Ask him about airlines and get them to
really fight. Up next, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, Bob Elliot of
Unlimited Funds joins us with crude
surging [music] back above $100 a
barrel. Equities this morning down by
0.6%. The opening bow about 45 minutes
[music] away.
>> [music]
>> That's well within our capability,
right? blockading it and keeping
control, interdicting ships. That's
something we [music] can do. I think we
can stay far enough away that we're not
really in constant range of Iranian
attacks. It's really comes down to the
extent [music] of how far we're willing
to go and if Iran's going to try and
disrupt us or not. I do think all bets
are off. If we really see the ceasefire
broken, I think markets sell off 2 or
3%. I wanted to find time to have a
serious conversation at some point this
morning about the golf and grandma and
the commercial [music] break. Do they
get to keep the jacket? [laughter]
>> It's like the level of the golf
discourse around this table. You know,
you had that on air. So, there you go.
>> Their kids were cute. I saw I saw their
children doing interviews. [music] I
don't even know who any of these people
are, but day. Yeah. Ahead of the main
the main problem was having hope.
>> It's like great disappointment. Anyway,
let's talk about financial markets, man.
>> They were never high. They [laughter]
were already low.
>> All right.
>> This is the market this morning. We're
up by 7% on [music] Brent and WTI. It's
a gap higher. This blockade begins
according to the president in 1 hour and
11 minutes time. That's the move at the
front end of the futures curve for crude
Brent and WTI. And [music] you have to
imagine if you take away those 2 million
barrels of Iranian crude that the
physical market gets that little bit
tighter as well.
>> Absolutely. And on top of that, it is
not just the fact that [music] this is a
blockade and a blockade. As we've been
talking about, there are countries right
now who are going into really like
existential moments [music] because the
final ships that they receive, no more
is coming. On top of that, you have
still the fog of what happens. You've
been talking about the East West
pipeline in Saudi Arabia. What happens
if the Houthies decide to get involved?
There's tons of geopolitical risk and is
it being baked right in right now? Not
sure all [music] of it. to equities at
the moment. We turn equity futures at
the moment negative just 0.5%
on the S&P [music]
500. Let's get to the trading diary for
the week ahead at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
That's the time for the blockade to
begin of the straight of horm. Coming up
later this week, results from JP Morgan,
Wells Fargo, and [music] City. That's
tomorrow. We'll get PPI as well. On
Wednesday, results from Bank of America
and Morgan Stanley. Plus the Fed's Beige
Book. On Thursday, get a sprinkle of
media/tech. will get Netflix earnings
[music] as well this coming Thursday.
Let's send back to our top story. Oil
prices surging with President Trump's
Homer's blockade just over an hour away.
Bob Elliot of Unlimited Funds writing
the longer gas prices are elevated, the
more households must start to cut back
elsewhere and prices rise more broadly.
Bob joins us now for more. Bob, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> What's the risk here of inflation
becoming embedded, stickier, and broader
price pressure emerging in the months to
come? Well, I I think the main issue
here is that um there's the immediate
effect of gas prices at the pump go up
and for a short period of time, everyone
kind of looks through that. You're like,
it'll get resolved. I won't worry too
much about it. But we're already
starting to see particularly uh in some
Bank of America data, the lower income
cohorts, lower income third starting to
pull back on discretionary spending. And
that, you know, this has only been
around for a few weeks in terms of the
price effect. that's going to start to
permeate more broadly across the
economy. Not only because there's going
to be a lot of spending on gas, but then
we also have uh you know the embedded
prices through diesel fuel prices that
are going to start to you know go well
beyond just the price of the pump.
>> So you see that stress migrating up to
other income groups as well.
>> For sure. And and I think one of the key
issues here is we're sort of at an
optimal point for an oil shock because
we're also getting at the same time a
bunch of these uh rebate checks, right?
tax refund checks and that that is those
B those are two things that are
offsetting each other uh in terms of the
economy particularly for the lower
income. But that's that's only going to
last for on the order of weeks in terms
of hitting people's paychecks and and
bank accounts once that wraps up and
then we have basically the roll off of
uh the Iranian crude that was sanctioned
that's allowed to be sold, some of the
Russian crude that was sanctioned that's
allowed to be sold and we've got another
2 million barrels off the market. like
we're really creating coming to a stress
point that's going to sit basically May
1st. It's going to be a lot of stress on
the market with both higher prices and
less spending power for households.
>> How does this translate in terms of
market performance given the fact that
we've already seen a downgrading of a
number of discre discretionary consumer
discretionary sites and a lot of people
are expecting that any kind of growth is
going to come from technology from
financials which are uh a bit removed
from some of those factors. Well, when
you when you look at overall growth
expectations, I mean, I think it's a
total consensus that we're going to have
2 and a half to 3%. The previous guest
was basically saying the same thing on a
real basis. But then you look at
household consumption numbers even
before coming into this oil shock, we
saw household consumption over a 6-month
time frame at 1.2% real. Add in one to
two to maybe 3% inflation pass through.
How are households which are just the
backbone of the whole economy, how are
they going to deliver enough real
spending growth to meet those extremely
high expectations? And remember, while a
lot of the profits are going to come
from uh you know from AI and other sort
of techreated uh uh endeavors,
ultimately the people who spend in the
economy are households and the
government. That's it, right? Otherwise,
it's just trying to take money who who
gets what share of the pie. And so if
households aren't spending, it doesn't
matter how good AI looks, it's not going
to deliver the type of profits and
revenues expected.
>> From an investment perspective, does
that lead you to go into bonds or is
that not the answer anymore? Because the
reaction function cannot come from
monetary policy given the fact that this
is also has an inflationary tinge to it.
Yeah, I think one of the challenges is
um you know it's probably not a time to
go long bonds sort of in a traditional
recessionary environment because so much
of the the effect is through the
inflation side of things. So instead
looking at at maybe being uh long bonds
relative to stocks, right? The point
being that the growth dynamic is going
to be hit stocks harder than it is going
to be uh hitting bonds. And so that's
the sort of way to neutralize yourself
to that inflation pressure um and still
make that bet on the on the very high
expectations of growth that's in the
market.
>> Bob Maywan, does the physical paper
market catch up to the physical market?
>> Well, I think so. I mean, look, the the
the true barrels being traded right now
are trading at $140 a barrel, right, in
terms of at the end of last week. And
so, and we're talking about bringing
possibly up to another four, five or 6
million barrels off the market by May
1st as those various elements roll off.
And the and if this blockade continues,
that's probably, you know, the old rule
of thumb is 5 to 7 a barrel per million.
You know, we're talking about incredibly
high spot prices that are facing this
economy if this doesn't get resolved
quickly.
>> Bob, it's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking this down. Bob Elliot there of
unlimited funds at the end there. just
this ongoing one-mon rolling disconnect
between the front end of a futures curve
and a physical market. And the closer
you get to expiration, it's like the
wakeup call. Hello physical world. You
got a clear demand and supply and that
number is a whole lot higher.
>> That gap has never been wider. I mean
when it reached when that uh spot price
reached $144 a barrel. It had never been
wider versus the paper market. So at
some point you have to imagine it
reconciles. At the same time they're
talking they're talking about talks.
Things are the pace of bad news isn't
getting that much more significant. So
people are getting a little bit excited
>> and this blockade is real. According to
US Central Command, they're issuing
notices this morning saying that a
vessel going in and out. You are subject
to interception, diversion, and capture.
>> Things could get tense over the next 24
hours. That's for sure. That blockade
set to begin in 1 hour and 5 minutes
time. Tomorrow we'll have numbers from
JP Morgan and a whole host of other
banks as well. Wells Fargo and City. The
day after, you'll hear from Bank of
America and Morgan Stanley. We'll break
it down with the following guests. Brian
Levit of Invesco, Jerro Cassidy of RBC,
Alicia Lavine of BNY, and the Port of AL
executive director Gene Soka joining the
program as well. Equity futures going
into the opening bound negative by just
0.5% on [music] the S&P 500. A lot of
banks on Wall Street lining up with the
same call by the dip. Look through the
tension [music] in the Middle East.
We'll see if that's the right call in
the weeks to come. From New York City
this morning, good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.